GEN  50\v 3 Forty days were used for him, for that is how many the days it takes to embalm. The Egyptians wept for Israel for seventy days. 
GEN  50\v 3 Forty days were used for him, for that is how many days it takes to embalm. The Egyptians wept for Israel for seventy days. 
EXO   3\v 25 God saw the children of Israel, and God was concerned about them. 
EXO   3\v 25 God saw the children of Israel, and God understood. 
EXO  28\v 1 “Bring Aaron your brother, and his sons with him, near to you from among the children of Israel, that he may minister to me in the priest’s office: Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar, Aaron’s sons. 
EXO  28\v 1 “Bring Aaron your brother, and his sons with him, near to you from among the children of Israel, that he may minister to me in the priest’s office: Aaron, with Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar, Aaron’s sons. 
EXO  32\v 7 Yahweh spoke to Moses, “Go, get down; for your people, who you brought up out of the land of Egypt, have corrupted themselves! 
EXO  32\v 7 Yahweh spoke to Moses, “Go, get down; for your people, whom you brought up out of the land of Egypt, have corrupted themselves! 
LEV  22\v 5 or whoever touches any creeping thing whereby he may be made unclean, or a man from whom he may become unclean, whatever uncleanness he has— 
LEV  22\v 5 or whoever touches any creeping thing by which he may be made unclean, or a man from whom he may become unclean, whatever uncleanness he has— 
NUM  35\v 33 “‘So you shall not pollute the land where you live; for blood pollutes the land. No atonement can be made for the land, for the blood that is shed in it, but by the blood of him who shed it. 
NUM  35\v 33 “‘So you shall not pollute the land where you live; for blood pollutes the land. No atonement can be made for the land for the blood that is shed in it, but by the blood of him who shed it. 
NUM  36\v 1 The heads of the fathers’ households of the family of the children of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh, of the families of the sons of Joseph, came near, and spoke before Moses and before the princes, the heads of the fathers’ households of the children of Israel. 
NUM  36\v 1 The heads of the fathers’ households of the family of the children of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh, of the families of the sons of Joseph, came near and spoke before Moses and before the princes, the heads of the fathers’ households of the children of Israel. 
DEU   1\v 11 Yahweh, the God of your fathers, make you a thousand times as many as you are and bless you, as he has promised you! 
DEU   1\v 11 May Yahweh, the God of your fathers, make you a thousand times as many as you are and bless you, as he has promised you! 
DEU   1\v 45 You returned and wept before Yahweh; but Yahweh didn’t listen to your voice, nor turn his ear to you. 
DEU   1\v 45 You returned and wept before Yahweh, but Yahweh didn’t listen to your voice, nor turn his ear to you. 
DEU   2\v 13 “Now rise up, and cross over the brook Zered.” We went over the brook Zered. 
DEU   2\v 13 “Now rise up and cross over the brook Zered.” We went over the brook Zered. 
DEU   2\v 21 a great people, many, and tall, as the Anakim; but Yahweh destroyed them from before Israel, and they succeeded them, and lived in their place; 
DEU   2\v 21 a great people, many, and tall, as the Anakim; but Yahweh destroyed them from before Israel, and they succeeded them, and lived in their place, 
DEU   2\v 29 as the children of Esau who dwell in Seir, and the Moabites who dwell in Ar, did to me; until I pass over the Jordan into the land which Yahweh our God gives us.” 
DEU   2\v 29 as the children of Esau who dwell in Seir, and the Moabites who dwell in Ar, did to me, until I pass over the Jordan into the land which Yahweh our God gives us.” 
DEU   4\v 1 Now, Israel, listen to the statutes and to the ordinances which I teach you, to do them; that you may live, and go in and possess the land which Yahweh, the God of your fathers, gives you. 
DEU   4\v 1 Now, Israel, listen to the statutes and to the ordinances which I teach you, to do them, that you may live and go in and possess the land which Yahweh, the God of your fathers, gives you. 
DEU   5\v 16 “Honor your father and your mother, as Yahweh your God commanded you; that your days may be long, and that it may go well with you in the land which Yahweh your God gives you. 
DEU   5\v 16 “Honor your father and your mother, as Yahweh your God commanded you, that your days may be long and that it may go well with you in the land which Yahweh your God gives you. 
DEU  20\v 1 When you go out to battle against your enemies, and see horses, chariots, and a people more numerous than you, you shall not be afraid of them; for Yahweh your God is with you, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt. 
DEU  20\v 1 When you go out to battle against your enemies, and see horses, chariots, and a people more numerous than you, you shall not be afraid of them; for Yahweh your God, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt, is with you. 
DEU  24\v 15 In his day you shall give him his wages, neither shall the sun go down on it; for he is poor and sets his heart on it; lest he cry against you to Yahweh, and it be sin to you. 
DEU  24\v 15 In his day you shall give him his wages, neither shall the sun go down on it, for he is poor and sets his heart on it, lest he cry against you to Yahweh, and it be sin to you. 
DEU  25\v 17 Remember what Amalek did to you by the way as you came out of Egypt; 
DEU  25\v 17 Remember what Amalek did to you by the way as you came out of Egypt, 
DEU  27\v 19 He will make you high above all nations that he has made, in praise, in name, and in honor; and that you may be a holy people to Yahweh your God, as he has spoken. 
DEU  27\v 19 He will make you high above all nations that he has made, in praise, in name, and in honor, and that you may be a holy people to Yahweh your God, as he has spoken. 
JOS  10\v 7 So Joshua went up from Gilgal, he, and the whole army with him, including all the mighty men of valor. 
JOS  10\v 7 So Joshua went up from Gilgal, he and the whole army with him, including all the mighty men of valor. 
JOS  11\v 21 Joshua came at that time, and cut off the Anakim from the hill country, from Hebron, from Debir, from Anab, and from all the hill country of Judah, and from all the hill country of Israel: Joshua utterly destroyed them with their cities. 
JOS  11\v 21 Joshua came at that time, and cut off the Anakim from the hill country, from Hebron, from Debir, from Anab, and from all the hill country of Judah, and from all the hill country of Israel. Joshua utterly destroyed them with their cities. 
JOS  17\v 15 Joshua said to them, “If you are a numerous people, go up to the forest, and clear land for yourself there in the land of the Perizzites and of the Rephaim; since the hill country of Ephraim is too narrow for you.” 
JOS  17\v 15 Joshua said to them, “If you are a numerous people, go up to the forest, and clear land for yourself there in the land of the Perizzites and of the Rephaim, since the hill country of Ephraim is too narrow for you.” 
JDG   6\v 35 He sent messengers throughout all Manasseh, and they also were gathered together to follow him. He sent messengers to Asher, and to Zebulun, and to Naphtali; and they came up to meet them. 
JDG   6\v 35 He sent messengers throughout all Manasseh, and they also were gathered together to follow him. He sent messengers to Asher, to Zebulun, and to Naphtali; and they came up to meet them. 
RUT   3\v 7 When Boaz had eaten and drunk, and his heart was merry, he went to lie down at the end of the heap of grain. She came softly, uncovered his feet, and laid down. 
RUT   3\v 7 When Boaz had eaten and drunk, and his heart was merry, he went to lie down at the end of the heap of grain. She came softly, uncovered his feet, and lay down. 
1SM   2\v 1 Hannah prayed, and said: 
1SM   2\v 1 Hannah prayed, and said, 
1SM  26\v 5 Then David arose, and came to the place where Saul had encamped; and David saw the place where Saul lay, with Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his army. Saul lay within the place of the wagons, and the people were encamped around him. 
1SM  26\v 5 Then David arose and came to the place where Saul had encamped; and David saw the place where Saul lay, with Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his army. Saul lay within the place of the wagons, and the people were encamped around him. 
1SM  26\v 7 So David and Abishai came to the people by night: and, behold, Saul lay sleeping within the place of the wagons, with his spear stuck in the ground at his head; and Abner and the people lay around him. 
1SM  26\v 7 So David and Abishai came to the people by night; and, behold, Saul lay sleeping within the place of the wagons, with his spear stuck in the ground at his head; and Abner and the people lay around him. 
1SM  26\v 9 David said to Abishai, “Don’t destroy him; for who can stretch out his hand against Yahweh’s anointed, and be guiltless?” 
1SM  26\v 9 David said to Abishai, “Don’t destroy him, for who can stretch out his hand against Yahweh’s anointed, and be guiltless?” 
1SM  26\v 11 Yahweh forbid that I should stretch out my hand against Yahweh’s anointed; but now please take the spear that is at his head, and the jar of water, and let’s go.” 
1SM  26\v 11 Yahweh forbid that I should stretch out my hand against Yahweh’s anointed; but now please take the spear that is at his head and the jar of water, and let’s go.” 
1SM  26\v 15 David said to Abner, “Aren’t you a man? Who is like you in Israel? Why then have you not kept watch over your lord, the king? For one of the people came in to destroy the king your lord. 
1SM  26\v 15 David said to Abner, “Aren’t you a man? Who is like you in Israel? Why then have you not kept watch over your lord the king? For one of the people came in to destroy your lord the king. 
1SM  27\v 25 Then Saul said to David, “You are blessed, my son David. You will both do mightily, and will surely prevail.” So David went his way, and Saul returned to his place. 
1SM  27\v 25 Then Saul said to David, “You are blessed, my son David. You will both do mightily, and will surely prevail.” 
1SM  27\v 3 David lived with Achish at Gath, he and his men, every man with his household, even David with his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the Carmelitess, Nabal’s wife. 
1SM  27\v 3 David lived with Achish at Gath, he and his men, every man with his household, even David with his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess and Abigail the Carmelitess, Nabal’s wife. 
1SM  27\v 11 David saved neither man nor woman alive, to bring them to Gath, saying, “Lest they should tell about us, saying, ‘David did this, and this has been his way all the time he has lived in the country of the Philistines.’” 
1SM  27\v 11 David saved neither man nor woman alive to bring them to Gath, saying, “Lest they should tell about us, saying, ‘David did this, and this has been his way all the time he has lived in the country of the Philistines.’” 
1SM  28\v 3 Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had mourned for him, and buried him in Ramah, even in his own city. Saul had sent away those who had familiar spirits and the wizards out of the land. 
1SM  28\v 3 Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had mourned for him and buried him in Ramah, even in his own city. Saul had sent away those who had familiar spirits and the wizards out of the land. 
1SM  28\v 7 Then Saul said to his servants, “Seek for me a woman who has a familiar spirit, that I may go to her, and inquire of her.” 
1SM  28\v 7 Then Saul said to his servants, “Seek for me a woman who has a familiar spirit, that I may go to her and inquire of her.” 
1SM  28\v 17 Yahweh has done to you as he spoke by me. Yahweh has torn the kingdom out of your hand, and given it to your neighbor, even to David. 
1SM  28\v 17 Yahweh has done to you as he spoke by me. Yahweh has torn the kingdom out of your hand and given it to your neighbor, even to David. 
1SM  28\v 21 The woman came to Saul, and saw that he was very troubled, and said to him, “Behold, your servant has listened to your voice, and I have put my life in my hand, and have listened to your words which you spoke to me. 
1SM  28\v 21 The woman came to Saul and saw that he was very troubled, and said to him, “Behold, your servant has listened to your voice, and I have put my life in my hand, and have listened to your words which you spoke to me. 
1SM  29\v 25 She brought it before Saul, and before his servants; and they ate. Then they rose up, and went away that night. 
1SM  29\v 25 She brought it before Saul and before his servants, and they ate. Then they rose up and went away that night. 
1SM  29\v 9 Achish answered David, “I know that you are good in my sight, as an angel of God. Notwithstanding the princes of the Philistines have said, ‘He shall not go up with us to the battle.’ 
1SM  29\v 9 Achish answered David, “I know that you are good in my sight, as an angel of God. Notwithstanding, the princes of the Philistines have said, ‘He shall not go up with us to the battle.’ 
1SM  30\v 11 So David rose up early, he and his men, to depart in the morning, to return into the land of the Philistines, and the Philistines went up to Jezreel. 
1SM  30\v 11 So David rose up early, he and his men, to depart in the morning, to return into the land of the Philistines; and the Philistines went up to Jezreel. 
1SM  30\v 1 When David and his men had come to Ziklag on the third day, the Amalekites had made a raid on the South, and on Ziklag, and had struck Ziklag, and burned it with fire, 
1SM  30\v 1 When David and his men had come to Ziklag on the third day, the Amalekites had made a raid on the South and on Ziklag, and had struck Ziklag and burned it with fire, 
1SM  30\v 17 David struck them from the twilight even to the evening of the next day. Not a man of them escaped from there, except four hundred young men, who rode on camels and fled. 
1SM  30\v 17 David struck them from the twilight even to the evening of the next day. Not a man of them escaped from there, except four hundred young men who rode on camels and fled. 
1SM  30\v 25 It was so from that day forward, that he made it a statute and an ordinance for Israel to this day. 
1SM  30\v 25 It was so from that day forward that he made it a statute and an ordinance for Israel to this day. 
1SM  31\v 7 When the men of Israel who were on the other side of the valley, and those who were beyond the Jordan, saw that the men of Israel fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they abandoned the cities and fled; and the Philistines came and lived in them. 
1SM  31\v 7 When the men of Israel who were on the other side of the valley, and those who were beyond the Jordan, saw that the men of Israel fled and that Saul and his sons were dead, they abandoned the cities and fled; and the Philistines came and lived in them. 
1SM  31\v 9 They cut off his head, stripped off his armor, and sent into the land of the Philistines all around, to carry the news to the house of their idols, and to the people. 
1SM  31\v 9 They cut off his head, stripped off his armor, and sent into the land of the Philistines all around, to carry the news to the house of their idols and to the people. 
2SM   1\v 1 After the death of Saul, when David had returned from the slaughter of the Amalekites, and David had stayed two days in Ziklag; 
2SM   1\v 1 After the death of Saul, when David had returned from the slaughter of the Amalekites, and David had stayed two days in Ziklag, 
2SM   1\v 7 When he looked behind him, he saw me, and called to me. I answered, ‘Here I am.’ 
2SM   1\v 7 When he looked behind him, he saw me and called to me. I answered, ‘Here I am.’ 
2SM   1\v 9 He said to me, ‘Please stand beside me, and kill me; for anguish has taken hold of me, because my life lingers in me.’ 
2SM   1\v 9 He said to me, ‘Please stand beside me, and kill me, for anguish has taken hold of me because my life lingers in me.’ 
2SM   1\v 11 Then David took hold on his clothes, and tore them; and all the men who were with him did likewise. 
2SM   1\v 11 Then David took hold on his clothes and tore them; and all the men who were with him did likewise. 
2SM   1\v 15 David called one of the young men, and said, “Go near, and cut him down!” He struck him so that he died. 
2SM   1\v 15 David called one of the young men and said, “Go near, and cut him down!” He struck him so that he died. 
2SM   2\v 9 and he made him king over Gilead, and over the Ashurites, and over Jezreel, and over Ephraim, and over Benjamin, and over all Israel. 
2SM   2\v 9 He made him king over Gilead, over the Ashurites, over Jezreel, over Ephraim, over Benjamin, and over all Israel. 
2SM   2\v 13 Joab the son of Zeruiah and David’s servants went out, and met them by the pool of Gibeon; and they sat down, the one on the one side of the pool, and the other on the other side of the pool. 
2SM   2\v 13 Joab the son of Zeruiah and David’s servants went out, and met them by the pool of Gibeon; and they sat down, the one on the one side of the pool and the other on the other side of the pool. 
2SM   2\v 19 Asahel pursued Abner; and in going he didn’t turn to the right hand or to the left from following Abner. 
2SM   2\v 19 Asahel pursued Abner. He didn’t turn to the right hand or to the left from following Abner. 
2SM   2\v 23 However he refused to turn away. Therefore Abner with the back end of the spear struck him in the body, so that the spear came out behind him; and he fell down there, and died in the same place. As many as came to the place where Asahel fell down and died stood still. 
2SM   2\v 23 However, he refused to turn away. Therefore Abner with the back end of the spear struck him in the body, so that the spear came out behind him; and he fell down there and died in the same place. As many as came to the place where Asahel fell down and died stood still. 
2SM   2\v 25 The children of Benjamin gathered themselves together after Abner, and became one band, and stood on the top of a hill. 
2SM   2\v 25 The children of Benjamin gathered themselves together after Abner and became one band, and stood on the top of a hill. 
2SM   2\v 31 But David’s servants had struck Benjamin and of Abner’s men so that three hundred sixty men died. 
2SM   2\v 31 But David’s servants had struck Benjamin Abner’s men so that three hundred sixty men died. 
2SM   3\v 9 God do so to Abner, and more also, if, as Yahweh has sworn to David, I don’t do even so to him; 
2SM   3\v 9 God do so to Abner, and more also, if, as Yahweh has sworn to David, I don’t do even so to him: 
2SM   3\v 13 He said, “Good. I will make a treaty with you, but one thing I require of you. That is, you will not see my face unless you first bring Michal, Saul’s daughter, when you come to see my face.” 
2SM   3\v 13 David said, “Good. I will make a treaty with you, but one thing I require of you. That is, you will not see my face unless you first bring Michal, Saul’s daughter, when you come to see my face.” 
2SM   3\v 15 Ishbosheth sent and took her from her husband, even from Paltiel the son of Laish. 
2SM   3\v 15 Ishbosheth sent and took her from her husband, Paltiel the son of Laish. 
2SM   3\v 19 Abner also spoke in the ears of Benjamin: and Abner went also to speak in the ears of David in Hebron all that seemed good to Israel, and to the whole house of Benjamin. 
2SM   3\v 19 Abner also spoke in the ears of Benjamin; and Abner went also to speak in the ears of David in Hebron all that seemed good to Israel and to the whole house of Benjamin. 
2SM   3\v 27 When Abner was returned to Hebron, Joab took him aside into the middle of the gate to speak with him quietly, and struck him there in the body, so that he died, for the blood of Asahel his brother. 
2SM   3\v 27 When Abner was returned to Hebron, Joab took him aside into the middle of the gate to speak with him quietly, and struck him there in the body, so that he died for the blood of Asahel his brother. 
2SM   3\v 29 Let it fall on the head of Joab, and on all his father’s house. Let there not fail from the house of Joab one who has a discharge, or who is a leper, or who leans on a staff, or who falls by the sword, or who lacks bread.” 
2SM   3\v 29 Let it fall on the head of Joab and on all his father’s house. Let there not fail from the house of Joab one who has a discharge, or who is a leper, or who leans on a staff, or who falls by the sword, or who lacks bread.” 
2SM   3\v 31 David said to Joab, and to all the people who were with him, “Tear your clothes, and clothe yourselves with sackcloth, and mourn in front of Abner.” King David followed the bier. 
2SM   3\v 31 David said to Joab and to all the people who were with him, “Tear your clothes, and clothe yourselves with sackcloth, and mourn in front of Abner.” King David followed the bier. 
2SM   3\v 35 All the people came to urge David to eat bread while it was yet day; but David swore, saying, “God do so to me, and more also, if I taste bread, or anything else, until the sun goes down.” 
2SM   3\v 35 All the people came to urge David to eat bread while it was yet day; but David swore, saying, “God do so to me, and more also, if I taste bread or anything else, until the sun goes down.” 
2SM   4\v 5 The sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, Rechab and Baanah, went and came at about the heat of the day to the house of Ishbosheth, as he took his rest at noon. 
2SM   4\v 5 The sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, Rechab and Baanah, went out and came at about the heat of the day to the house of Ishbosheth as he took his rest at noon. 
2SM   4\v 7 Now when they came into the house, as he lay on his bed in his bedroom, they struck him, killed him, beheaded him, and took his head, and went by the way of the Arabah all night. 
2SM   4\v 7 Now when they came into the house as he lay on his bed in his bedroom, they struck him, killed him, beheaded him, and took his head, and went by the way of the Arabah all night. 
2SM   5\v 1 Then all the tribes of Israel came to David at Hebron, and spoke, saying, “Behold, we are your bone and your flesh. 
2SM   5\v 1 Then all the tribes of Israel came to David at Hebron and spoke, saying, “Behold, we are your bone and your flesh. 
2SM   5\v 5 In Hebron he reigned over Judah seven years and six months; and in Jerusalem he reigned thirty-three years over all Israel and Judah. 
2SM   5\v 5 In Hebron he reigned over Judah seven years and six months, and in Jerusalem he reigned thirty-three years over all Israel and Judah. 
2SM   5\v 21 They left their images there; and David and his men took them away. 
2SM   5\v 21 They left their images there, and David and his men took them away. 
2SM   6\v 7 Yahweh’s anger burned against Uzzah; and God struck him there for his error; and he died there by God’s ark. 
2SM   6\v 7 Yahweh’s anger burned against Uzzah, and God struck him there for his error; and he died there by God’s ark. 
2SM   6\v 15 So David and all the house of Israel brought up Yahweh’s ark with shouting, and with the sound of the trumpet. 
2SM   6\v 15 So David and all the house of Israel brought up Yahweh’s ark with shouting and with the sound of the trumpet. 
2SM   6\v 17 They brought in Yahweh’s ark, and set it in its place, in the middle of the tent that David had pitched for it; and David offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before Yahweh. 
2SM   6\v 17 They brought in Yahweh’s ark, and set it in its place in the middle of the tent that David had pitched for it; and David offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before Yahweh. 
2SM   7\v 3 Nathan said to the king, “Go, do all that is in your heart; for Yahweh is with you.” 
2SM   7\v 3 Nathan said to the king, “Go, do all that is in your heart, for Yahweh is with you.” 
2SM   7\v 7 In all places in which I have walked with all the children of Israel, did I say a word to any of the tribes of Israel, whom I commanded to be shepherd of my people Israel, saying, ‘Why have you not built me a house of cedar?’”’ 
2SM   7\v 7 In all places in which I have walked with all the children of Israel, did I say a word to anyone from the tribes of Israel whom I commanded to be shepherd of my people Israel, saying, ‘Why have you not built me a house of cedar?’”’ 
2SM   7\v 19 This was yet a small thing in your eyes, Lord Yahweh; but you have spoken also of your servant’s house for a great while to come; and this among men, Lord Yahweh! 
2SM   7\v 19 This was yet a small thing in your eyes, Lord Yahweh, but you have spoken also of your servant’s house for a great while to come; and this among men, Lord Yahweh! 
2SM   7\v 25 Now, Yahweh God, the word that you have spoken concerning your servant, and concerning his house, confirm it forever, and do as you have spoken. 
2SM   7\v 25 “Now, Yahweh God, the word that you have spoken concerning your servant, and concerning his house, confirm it forever, and do as you have spoken. 
2SM   8\v 29 Now therefore let it please you to bless the house of your servant, that it may continue forever before you; for you, Lord Yahweh, have spoken it. Let the house of your servant be blessed forever with your blessing.” 
2SM   8\v 29 Now therefore, let it please you to bless the house of your servant, that it may continue forever before you; for you, Lord Yahweh, have spoken it. Let the house of your servant be blessed forever with your blessing.” 
2SM   8\v 11 King David also dedicated these to Yahweh, with the silver and gold that he dedicated of all the nations which he subdued; 
2SM   8\v 11 King David also dedicated these to Yahweh, with the silver and gold that he dedicated of all the nations which he subdued— 
2SM   9\v 5 Then king David sent, and brought him out of the house of Machir the son of Ammiel, from Lo Debar. 
2SM   9\v 5 Then king David sent and brought him out of the house of Machir the son of Ammiel, from Lo Debar. 
2SM   9\v 7 David said to him, “Don’t be afraid; for I will surely show you kindness for Jonathan your father’s sake, and will restore to you all the land of Saul your father. You will eat bread at my table continually.” 
2SM   9\v 7 David said to him, “Don’t be afraid, for I will surely show you kindness for Jonathan your father’s sake, and will restore to you all the land of Saul your father. You will eat bread at my table continually.” 
2SM   9\v 11 Then Ziba said to the king, “According to all that my lord the king commands his servant, so your servant will do.” So Mephibosheth ate at the king’s table, like one of the king’s sons. 
2SM   9\v 11 Then Ziba said to the king, “According to all that my lord the king commands his servant, so your servant will do.” So Mephibosheth ate at the king’s table like one of the king’s sons. 
2SM  10\v 13 So Mephibosheth lived in Jerusalem; for he ate continually at the king’s table. He was lame in both his feet. 
2SM  10\v 13 So Mephibosheth lived in Jerusalem, for he ate continually at the king’s table. He was lame in both his feet. 
2SM  10\v 7 When David heard of it, he sent Joab, and all the army of the mighty men. 
2SM  10\v 7 When David heard of it, he sent Joab and all the army of the mighty men. 
2SM  10\v 9 Now when Joab saw that the battle was set against him before and behind, he chose of all the choice men of Israel, and put them in array against the Syrians. 
2SM  10\v 9 Now when Joab saw that the battle was set against him before and behind, he chose of all the choice men of Israel and put them in array against the Syrians. 
2SM  10\v 17 David was told that; and he gathered all Israel together, passed over the Jordan, and came to Helam. The Syrians set themselves in array against David, and fought with him. 
2SM  10\v 17 David was told that; and he gathered all Israel together, passed over the Jordan, and came to Helam. The Syrians set themselves in array against David and fought with him. 
2SM  11\v 19 When all the kings who were servants to Hadadezer saw that they were defeated before Israel, they made peace with Israel, and served them. So the Syrians were afraid to help the children of Ammon any more. 
2SM  11\v 19 When all the kings who were servants to Hadadezer saw that they were defeated before Israel, they made peace with Israel and served them. So the Syrians were afraid to help the children of Ammon any more. 
2SM  11\v 1 At the return of the year, at the time when kings go out, David sent Joab, and his servants with him, and all Israel; and they destroyed the children of Ammon, and besieged Rabbah. But David stayed at Jerusalem. 
2SM  11\v 1 At the return of the year, at the time when kings go out, David sent Joab and his servants with him, and all Israel; and they destroyed the children of Ammon and besieged Rabbah. But David stayed at Jerusalem. 
2SM  11\v 11 Uriah said to David, “The ark, Israel, and Judah, are staying in tents; and my lord Joab and the servants of my lord, are encamped in the open field. Shall I then go into my house to eat and to drink, and to lie with my wife? As you live, and as your soul lives, I will not do this thing!” 
2SM  11\v 11 Uriah said to David, “The ark, Israel, and Judah, are staying in tents; and my lord Joab and the servants of my lord are encamped in the open field. Shall I then go into my house to eat and to drink, and to lie with my wife? As you live, and as your soul lives, I will not do this thing!” 
2SM  11\v 15 He wrote in the letter, saying, “Send Uriah to the forefront of the hottest battle, and retreat from him, that he may be struck, and die.” 
2SM  11\v 15 He wrote in the letter, saying, “Send Uriah to the forefront of the hottest battle, and retreat from him, that he may be struck and die.” 
2SM  11\v 17 The men of the city went out, and fought with Joab. Some of the people fell, even of David’s servants; and Uriah the Hittite died also. 
2SM  11\v 17 The men of the city went out and fought with Joab. Some of the people fell, even of David’s servants; and Uriah the Hittite died also. 
2SM  11\v 23 The messenger said to David, “The men prevailed against us, and came out to us into the field, and we were on them even to the entrance of the gate. 
2SM  11\v 23 The messenger said to David, “The men prevailed against us, and came out to us into the field; and we were on them even to the entrance of the gate. 
2SM  12\v 27 When the mourning was past, David sent and took her home to his house, and she became his wife, and bore him a son. But the thing that David had done displeased Yahweh. 
2SM  12\v 27 When the mourning was past, David sent and took her home to his house, and she became his wife and bore him a son. But the thing that David had done displeased Yahweh. 
2SM  12\v 1 Yahweh sent Nathan to David. He came to him, and said to him, “There were two men in one city; the one rich, and the other poor. 
2SM  12\v 1 Yahweh sent Nathan to David. He came to him, and said to him, “There were two men in one city: the one rich, and the other poor. 
2SM  12\v 3 but the poor man had nothing, except one little ewe lamb, which he had bought and raised. It grew up together with him, and with his children. It ate of his own food, drank of his own cup, and lay in his bosom, and was like a daughter to him. 
2SM  12\v 3 but the poor man had nothing, except one little ewe lamb, which he had bought and raised. It grew up together with him and with his children. It ate of his own food, drank of his own cup, and lay in his bosom, and was like a daughter to him. 
2SM  12\v 7 Nathan said to David, “You are the man. This is what Yahweh, the God of Israel, says: ‘I anointed you king over Israel, and I delivered you out of the hand of Saul. 
2SM  12\v 7 Nathan said to David, “You are the man! This is what Yahweh, the God of Israel, says: ‘I anointed you king over Israel, and I delivered you out of the hand of Saul. 
2SM  12\v 9 Why have you despised Yahweh’s word, to do that which is evil in his sight? You have struck Uriah the Hittite with the sword, and have taken his wife to be your wife, and have slain him with the sword of the children of Ammon. 
2SM  12\v 9 Why have you despised Yahweh’s word, to do that which is evil in his sight? You have struck Uriah the Hittite with the sword, have taken his wife to be your wife, and have slain him with the sword of the children of Ammon. 
2SM  12\v 11 “This is what Yahweh says: ‘Behold, I will raise up evil against you out of your own house; and I will take your wives before your eyes, and give them to your neighbor, and he will lie with your wives in the sight of this sun. 
2SM  12\v 11 “This is what Yahweh says: ‘Behold, I will raise up evil against you out of your own house; and I will take your wives before your eyes and give them to your neighbor, and he will lie with your wives in the sight of this sun. 
2SM  12\v 15 Nathan departed to his house. 
2SM  12\v 15 Then Nathan departed to his house. 
2SM  12\v 17 The elders of his house arose beside him, to raise him up from the earth: but he would not, and he didn’t eat bread with them. 
2SM  12\v 17 The elders of his house arose beside him, to raise him up from the earth; but he would not, and he didn’t eat bread with them. 
2SM  12\v 23 But now he is dead, why should I fast? Can I bring him back again? I will go to him, but he will not return to me.” 
2SM  12\v 23 But now he is dead. Why should I fast? Can I bring him back again? I will go to him, but he will not return to me.” 
2SM  12\v 29 David gathered all the people together, and went to Rabbah, and fought against it, and took it. 
2SM  12\v 29 David gathered all the people together and went to Rabbah, and fought against it and took it. 
2SM  13\v 31 He brought out the people who were in it, and put them under saws, under iron picks, under axes of iron, and made them pass through the brick kiln; and he did so to all the cities of the children of Ammon. Then David and all the people returned to Jerusalem. 
2SM  13\v 31 He brought out the people who were in it, and put them to work under saws, under iron picks, under axes of iron, and made them go to the brick kiln; and he did so to all the cities of the children of Ammon. Then David and all the people returned to Jerusalem. 
2SM  13\v 3 But Amnon had a friend, whose name was Jonadab, the son of Shimeah, David’s brother; and Jonadab was a very subtle man. 
2SM  13\v 3 But Amnon had a friend whose name was Jonadab the son of Shimeah, David’s brother; and Jonadab was a very subtle man. 
2SM  13\v 5 Jonadab said to him, “Lay down on your bed, and pretend to be sick. When your father comes to see you, tell him, ‘Please let my sister Tamar come and give me bread to eat, and prepare the food in my sight, that I may see it, and eat it from her hand.’” 
2SM  13\v 5 Jonadab said to him, “Lay down on your bed and pretend to be sick. When your father comes to see you, tell him, ‘Please let my sister Tamar come and give me bread to eat, and prepare the food in my sight, that I may see it and eat it from her hand.’” 
2SM  13\v 9 She took the pan, and poured them out before him; but he refused to eat. Amnon said, “Have all men leave me.” Then every man went out from him. 
2SM  13\v 9 She took the pan and poured them out before him, but he refused to eat. Amnon said, “Have all men leave me.” Then every man went out from him. 
2SM  13\v 11 When she had brought them near to him to eat, he took hold of her, and said to her, “Come, lie with me, my sister!” 
2SM  13\v 11 When she had brought them near to him to eat, he took hold of her and said to her, “Come, lie with me, my sister!” 
2SM  13\v 19 Tamar put ashes on her head, and tore her garment of various colors that was on her; and she laid her hand on her head, and went her way, crying aloud as she went. 
2SM  13\v 19 Tamar put ashes on her head, and tore her garment of various colors that was on her; and she laid her hand on her head and went her way, crying aloud as she went. 
2SM  13\v 23 After two full years, Absalom had sheep shearers in Baal Hazor, which is beside Ephraim: and Absalom invited all the king’s sons. 
2SM  13\v 23 After two full years, Absalom had sheep shearers in Baal Hazor, which is beside Ephraim; and Absalom invited all the king’s sons. 
2SM  13\v 29 The servants of Absalom did to Amnon as Absalom had commanded. Then all the king’s sons arose, and every man got up on his mule, and fled. 
2SM  13\v 29 The servants of Absalom did to Amnon as Absalom had commanded. Then all the king’s sons arose, and every man got up on his mule and fled. 
2SM  13\v 37 But Absalom fled, and went to Talmai the son of Ammihur, king of Geshur. David mourned for his son every day. 
2SM  13\v 37 But Absalom fled and went to Talmai the son of Ammihur, king of Geshur. David mourned for his son every day. 
2SM  14\v 39 King David longed to go out to Absalom; for he was comforted concerning Amnon, since he was dead. 
2SM  14\v 39 King David longed to go out to Absalom, for he was comforted concerning Amnon, since he was dead. 
2SM  14\v 3 Go in to the king, and speak like this to him.” So Joab put the words in her mouth. 
2SM  14\v 3 Go in to the king and speak like this to him.” So Joab put the words in her mouth. 
2SM  14\v 15 Now therefore seeing that I have come to speak this word to my lord the king, it is because the people have made me afraid. Your servant said, ‘I will now speak to the king; it may be that the king will perform the request of his servant.’ 
2SM  14\v 15 Now therefore, seeing that I have come to speak this word to my lord the king, it is because the people have made me afraid. Your servant said, ‘I will now speak to the king; it may be that the king will perform the request of his servant.’ 
2SM  14\v 21 The king said to Joab, “Behold now, I have done this thing. Go therefore, and bring the young man Absalom back.” 
2SM  14\v 21 The king said to Joab, “Behold now, I have granted this thing. Go therefore, and bring the young man Absalom back.” 
2SM  14\v 31 Then Joab arose, and came to Absalom to his house, and said to him, “Why have your servants set my field on fire?” 
2SM  14\v 31 Then Joab arose and came to Absalom to his house, and said to him, “Why have your servants set my field on fire?” 
2SM  15\v 33 So Joab came to the king, and told him; and when he had called for Absalom, he came to the king, and bowed himself on his face to the ground before the king; and the king kissed Absalom. 
2SM  15\v 33 So Joab came to the king and told him; and when he had called for Absalom, he came to the king and bowed himself on his face to the ground before the king; and the king kissed Absalom. 
2SM  15\v 5 It was so, that when any man came near to bow down to him, he stretched out his hand, and took hold of him, and kissed him. 
2SM  15\v 5 It was so, that when any man came near to bow down to him, he stretched out his hand, took hold of him, and kissed him. 
2SM  15\v 19 Then the king said to Ittai the Gittite, “Why do you also go with us? Return, and stay with the king; for you are a foreigner, and also an exile. Return to your own place. 
2SM  15\v 19 Then the king said to Ittai the Gittite, “Why do you also go with us? Return, and stay with the king; for you are a foreigner and also an exile. Return to your own place. 
2SM  15\v 21 Ittai answered the king, and said, “As Yahweh lives, and as my lord the king lives, surely in what place my lord the king is, whether for death or for life, your servant will be there also.” 
2SM  15\v 21 Ittai answered the king and said, “As Yahweh lives, and as my lord the king lives, surely in what place my lord the king is, whether for death or for life, your servant will be there also.” 
2SM  15\v 23 All the country wept with a loud voice, and all the people passed over. The king also himself passed over the brook Kidron, and all the people passed over, toward the way of the wilderness. 
2SM  15\v 23 All the country wept with a loud voice, and all the people passed over. The king also himself passed over the brook Kidron, and all the people passed over toward the way of the wilderness. 
2SM  15\v 25 The king said to Zadok, “Carry God’s ark back into the city. If I find favor in Yahweh’s eyes, he will bring me again, and show me both it, and his habitation; 
2SM  15\v 25 The king said to Zadok, “Carry God’s ark back into the city. If I find favor in Yahweh’s eyes, he will bring me again, and show me both it and his habitation; 
2SM  15\v 27 The king said also to Zadok the priest, “Aren’t you a seer? Return into the city in peace, and your two sons with you, Ahimaaz your son, and Jonathan the son of Abiathar. 
2SM  15\v 27 The king said also to Zadok the priest, “Aren’t you a seer? Return into the city in peace, and your two sons with you, Ahimaaz your son and Jonathan the son of Abiathar. 
2SM  16\v 11 David said to Abishai, and to all his servants, “Behold, my son, who came out of my bowels, seeks my life. How much more this Benjamite, now? Leave him alone, and let him curse; for Yahweh has invited him. 
2SM  16\v 11 David said to Abishai and to all his servants, “Behold, my son, who came out of my bowels, seeks my life. How much more this Benjamite, now? Leave him alone, and let him curse; for Yahweh has invited him. 
2SM  16\v 13 So David and his men went by the way; and Shimei went along on the hillside opposite him, and cursed as he went, threw stones at him, and threw dust. 
2SM  16\v 13 So David and his men went by the way; and Shimei went along on the hillside opposite him and cursed as he went, threw stones at him, and threw dust. 
2SM  17\v 23 The counsel of Ahithophel, which he gave in those days, was as if a man inquired at the inner sanctuary of God. All the counsel of Ahithophel both was like this with David and with Absalom. 
2SM  17\v 23 The counsel of Ahithophel, which he gave in those days, was as if a man inquired at the inner sanctuary of God. All the counsel of Ahithophel was like this both with David and with Absalom. 
2SM  17\v 17 Now Jonathan and Ahimaaz were staying by En Rogel; and a female servant used to go and tell them; and they went and told king David. For they might not be seen to come into the city. 
2SM  17\v 17 Now Jonathan and Ahimaaz were staying by En Rogel; and a female servant used to go and report to them, and they went and told king David; for they couldn’t risk being seen coming into the city. 
2SM  17\v 21 After they had departed, they came up out of the well, and went and told king David; and they said to David, “Arise and pass quickly over the water; for thus has Ahithophel counseled against you.” 
2SM  17\v 21 After they had departed, they came up out of the well and went and told king David; and they said to David, “Arise and pass quickly over the water; for thus has Ahithophel counseled against you.” 
2SM  17\v 23 When Ahithophel saw that his counsel was not followed, he saddled his donkey, arose, and went home, to his city, and set his house in order, and hanged himself; and he died, and was buried in the tomb of his father. 
2SM  17\v 23 When Ahithophel saw that his counsel was not followed, he saddled his donkey, arose, and went home to his city, set his house in order, and hanged himself; and he died, and was buried in the tomb of his father. 
2SM  18\v 29 honey, butter, sheep, and cheese of the herd, for David, and for the people who were with him, to eat; for they said, “The people are hungry, weary, and thirsty in the wilderness.” 
2SM  18\v 29 honey, butter, sheep, and cheese of the herd, for David and for the people who were with him to eat; for they said, “The people are hungry, weary, and thirsty in the wilderness.” 
2SM  18\v 3 But the people said, “You shall not go out; for if we flee away, they will not care for us; neither if half of us die, will they care for us. But you are worth ten thousand of us. Therefore now it is better that you are ready to help us out of the city.” 
2SM  18\v 3 But the people said, “You shall not go out, for if we flee away, they will not care for us, neither if half of us die, will they care for us. But you are worth ten thousand of us. Therefore now it is better that you are ready to help us out of the city.” 
2SM  18\v 5 The king commanded Joab and Abishai and Ittai, saying, “Deal gently for my sake with the young man, even with Absalom.” All the people heard when the king commanded all the captains concerning Absalom. 
2SM  18\v 5 The king commanded Joab and Abishai and Ittai, saying, “Deal gently for my sake with the young man Absalom.” All the people heard when the king commanded all the captains concerning Absalom. 
2SM  18\v 9 Absalom happened to meet David’s servants. Absalom was riding on his mule, and the mule went under the thick boughs of a great oak, and his head caught hold of the oak, and he was taken up between the sky and earth; and the mule that was under him went on. 
2SM  18\v 9 Absalom happened to meet David’s servants. Absalom was riding on his mule, and the mule went under the thick boughs of a great oak; and his head caught hold of the oak, and he was hanging between the sky and earth; and the mule that was under him went on. 
2SM  18\v 11 Joab said to the man who told him, “Behold, you saw it, and why didn’t you strike him there to the ground? I would have given you ten pieces of silver, and a sash.” 
2SM  18\v 11 Joab said to the man who told him, “Behold, you saw it, and why didn’t you strike him there to the ground? I would have given you ten pieces of silver and a sash.” 
2SM  18\v 13 Otherwise if I had dealt falsely against his life (and there is no matter hidden from the king), then you yourself would have set yourself against me.” 
2SM  18\v 13 Otherwise, if I had dealt falsely against his life (and there is no matter hidden from the king), then you yourself would have set yourself against me.” 
2SM  18\v 25 The watchman cried, and told the king. The king said, “If he is alone, there is news in his mouth.” He came closer and closer. 
2SM  18\v 25 The watchman shouted and told the king. The king said, “If he is alone, there is news in his mouth.” He came closer and closer. 
2SM  18\v 31 Behold, the Cushite came. The Cushite said, “News for my lord the king, for Yahweh has avenged you today of all those who rose up against you.” 
2SM  18\v 31 Behold, the Cushite came. The Cushite said, “Good news for my lord the king, for Yahweh has avenged you today of all those who rose up against you.” 
2SM  19\v 33 The king was much moved, and went up to the room over the gate, and wept. As he went, he said, “My son Absalom! My son, my son Absalom! I wish I had died for you, Absalom, my son, my son!” 
2SM  19\v 33 The king was much moved, and went up to the room over the gate and wept. As he went, he said, “My son Absalom! My son, my son Absalom! I wish I had died instead of you, Absalom, my son, my son!” 
2SM  19\v 5 Joab came into the house to the king, and said, “Today you have shamed the faces of all your servants, who today have saved your life, and the lives of your sons and of your daughters, and the lives of your wives, and the lives of your concubines; 
2SM  19\v 5 Joab came into the house to the king, and said, “Today you have shamed the faces of all your servants who today have saved your life, and the lives of your sons and of your daughters, and the lives of your wives, and the lives of your concubines; 
2SM  19\v 7 Now therefore arise, go out, and speak to comfort your servants; for I swear by Yahweh, if you don’t go out, not a man will stay with you this night. That would be worse to you than all the evil that has happened to you from your youth until now.” 
2SM  19\v 7 Now therefore arise, go out and speak to comfort your servants; for I swear by Yahweh, if you don’t go out, not a man will stay with you this night. That would be worse to you than all the evil that has happened to you from your youth until now.” 
2SM  19\v 11 King David sent to Zadok and to Abiathar the priests, saying, “Speak to the elders of Judah, saying, ‘Why are you the last to bring the king back to his house? Since the speech of all Israel has come to the king, to return him to his house. 
2SM  19\v 11 King David sent to Zadok and to Abiathar the priests, saying, “Speak to the elders of Judah, saying, ‘Why are you the last to bring the king back to his house, since the speech of all Israel has come to the king, to return him to his house? 
2SM  19\v 31 Barzillai the Gileadite came down from Rogelim; and he went over the Jordan with the king, to conduct him over the Jordan. 
2SM  19\v 31 Barzillai the Gileadite came down from Rogelim; and he went over the Jordan with the king to conduct him over the Jordan. 
2SM  19\v 39 All the people went over the Jordan, and the king went over. Then the king kissed Barzillai, and blessed him; and he returned to his own place. 
2SM  19\v 39 All the people went over the Jordan, and the king went over. Then the king kissed Barzillai and blessed him; and he returned to his own place. 
2SM  19\v 41 Behold, all the men of Israel came to the king, and said to the king, “Why have our brothers the men of Judah stolen you away, and brought the king, and his household, over the Jordan, and all David’s men with him?” 
2SM  19\v 41 Behold, all the men of Israel came to the king, and said to the king, “Why have our brothers the men of Judah stolen you away, and brought the king and his household, over the Jordan, and all David’s men with him?” 
2SM  20\v 1 There happened to be there a wicked fellow, whose name was Sheba, the son of Bichri, a Benjamite; and he blew the trumpet, and said, “We have no portion in David, neither have we inheritance in the son of Jesse. Every man to his tents, Israel!” 
2SM  20\v 1 There happened to be there a wicked fellow, whose name was Sheba the son of Bichri, a Benjamite; and he blew the trumpet, and said, “We have no portion in David, neither have we inheritance in the son of Jesse. Every man to his tents, Israel!” 
2SM  20\v 3 David came to his house at Jerusalem; and the king took the ten women his concubines, whom he had left to keep the house, and put them in custody, and provided them with sustenance, but didn’t go in to them. So they were shut up to the day of their death, living in widowhood. 
2SM  20\v 3 David came to his house at Jerusalem; and the king took the ten women his concubines, whom he had left to keep the house, and put them in custody and provided them with sustenance, but didn’t go in to them. So they were shut up to the day of their death, living in widowhood. 
2SM  20\v 5 So Amasa went to call the men of Judah together; but he stayed longer than the set time which he had appointed him. 
2SM  20\v 5 So Amasa went to call the men of Judah together, but he stayed longer than the set time which had been appointed to him. 
2SM  20\v 7 Joab’s men went out after him, and the Cherethites and the Pelethites, and all the mighty men; and they went out of Jerusalem, to pursue Sheba the son of Bichri. 
2SM  20\v 7 Joab’s men went out after him with the Cherethites, the Pelethites, and all the mighty men; and they went out of Jerusalem to pursue Sheba the son of Bichri. 
2SM  20\v 13 When he was removed out of the highway, all the people went on after Joab, to pursue Sheba the son of Bichri. 
2SM  20\v 13 When he was removed out of the highway, all the people went on after Joab to pursue Sheba the son of Bichri. 
2SM  20\v 15 They came and besieged him in Abel of Beth Maacah, and they cast up a mound against the city, and it stood against the rampart; and all the people who were with Joab battered the wall, to throw it down. 
2SM  20\v 15 They came and besieged him in Abel of Beth Maacah, and they cast up a mound against the city, and it stood against the rampart; and all the people who were with Joab battered the wall to throw it down. 
2SM  20\v 25 Sheva was scribe, and Zadok and Abiathar were priests, 
2SM  20\v 25 Sheva was scribe, Zadok and Abiathar were priests, 
2SM  21\v 5 They said to the king, “The man who consumed us, and who devised against us, that we should be destroyed from remaining in any of the borders of Israel, 
2SM  21\v 5 They said to the king, “The man who consumed us and who plotted against us, that we should be destroyed from remaining in any of the borders of Israel, 
2SM  21\v 7 But the king spared Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan the son of Saul, because of Yahweh’s oath that was between them, between David and Jonathan the son of Saul. 
2SM  21\v 7 But the king spared Mephibosheth the son of Jonathan the son of Saul, because of Yahweh’s oath that was between them, between David and Jonathan the son of Saul. 
2SM  21\v 9 He delivered them into the hands of the Gibeonites, and they hanged them on the mountain before Yahweh, and all seven of them fell together. They were put to death in the days of harvest, in the first days, at the beginning of barley harvest. 
2SM  21\v 9 He delivered them into the hands of the Gibeonites; and they hanged them on the mountain before Yahweh, and all seven of them fell together. They were put to death in the days of harvest, in the first days, at the beginning of barley harvest. 
2SM  21\v 17 But Abishai the son of Zeruiah helped him, and struck the Philistine, and killed him. Then the men of David swore to him, saying, “Don’t go out with us to battle any more, so that you don’t quench the lamp of Israel.” 
2SM  21\v 17 But Abishai the son of Zeruiah helped him, and struck the Philistine and killed him. Then the men of David swore to him, saying, “Don’t go out with us to battle any more, so that you don’t quench the lamp of Israel.” 
2SM  21\v 19 There was again war with the Philistines at Gob; and Elhanan the son of Jaare-Oregim the Bethlehemite killed Goliath the Gittite’s brother, the staff of whose spear was like a weaver’s beam. 
2SM  21\v 19 There was again war with the Philistines at Gob, and Elhanan the son of Jaare-Oregim the Bethlehemite killed Goliath the Gittite’s brother, the staff of whose spear was like a weaver’s beam. 
2SM  22\v 27 With the pure you will show yourself pure. 
2SM  22\v 26 With the merciful you will show yourself merciful. 
2SM  22\v 29 For you are my lamp, Yahweh. 
2SM  22\v 28 You will save the afflicted people, 
2SM  22\v 31 As for God, his way is perfect. 
2SM  22\v 30 For by you, I run against a troop. 
2SM  22\v 33 God is my strong fortress. 
2SM  22\v 32 For who is God, besides Yahweh? 
2SM  22\v 35 He teaches my hands to war, 
2SM  22\v 34 He makes his feet like hinds’ feet, 
2SM  22\v 37 You have enlarged my steps under me. 
2SM  22\v 36 You have also given me the shield of your salvation. 
2SM  22\v 39 I have consumed them, 
2SM  22\v 38 I have pursued my enemies and destroyed them. 
2SM  22\v 41 You have also made my enemies turn their backs to me, 
2SM  22\v 40 For you have armed me with strength for the battle. 
2SM  22\v 43 Then I beat them as small as the dust of the earth. 
2SM  22\v 42 They looked, but there was no one to save; 
2SM  22\v 45 The foreigners will submit themselves to me. 
2SM  22\v 44 You also have delivered me from the strivings of my people. 
2SM  22\v 47 Yahweh lives! 
2SM  22\v 46 The foreigners will fade away, 
2SM  22\v 49 who brings me away from my enemies. 
2SM  22\v 47 Yahweh lives! 
2SM  23\v 51 He gives great deliverance to his king, 
2SM  22\v 49 who brings me away from my enemies. 
2SM  23\v 1 Now these are the last words of David. 
2SM  23\v 51 He gives great deliverance to his king, 
2SM  23\v 3 The God of Israel said, 
2SM  23\v 1 Now these are the last words of David. 
2SM  23\v 5 Isn’t my house so with God? 
2SM  23\v 3 The God of Israel said, 
2SM  23\v 7 The man who touches them must be armed with iron and the staff of a spear. 
2SM  23\v 5 Isn’t my house so with God? 
2SM  23\v 9 After him was Eleazar the son of Dodai the son of an Ahohite, one of the three mighty men with David, when they defied the Philistines who were there gathered together to battle, and the men of Israel had gone away. 
2SM  23\v 7 The man who touches them must be armed with iron and the staff of a spear. 
2SM  23\v 11 After him was Shammah the son of Agee a Hararite. The Philistines had gathered together into a troop, where there was a plot of ground full of lentils; and the people fled from the Philistines. 
2SM  23\v 9 After him was Eleazar the son of Dodai the son of an Ahohite, one of the three mighty men with David when they defied the Philistines who were there gathered together to battle, and the men of Israel had gone away. 
2SM  23\v 13 Three of the thirty chief men went down, and came to David in the harvest time to the cave of Adullam; and the troop of the Philistines was encamped in the valley of Rephaim. 
2SM  23\v 11 After him was Shammah the son of Agee a Hararite. The Philistines had gathered together into a troop where there was a plot of ground full of lentils; and the people fled from the Philistines. 
2SM  23\v 15 David longed, and said, “Oh that someone would give me water to drink from the well of Bethlehem, which is by the gate!” 
2SM  23\v 13 Three of the thirty chief men went down, and came to David in the harvest time to the cave of Adullam; and the troop of the Philistines was encamped in the valley of Rephaim. 
2SM  23\v 17 He said, “Be it far from me, Yahweh, that I should do this! Isn’t this the blood of the men who risked their lives to go?” Therefore he would not drink it. The three mighty men did these things. 
2SM  23\v 15 David said longingly, “Oh that someone would give me water to drink from the well of Bethlehem, which is by the gate!” 
2SM  23\v 19 Wasn’t he most honorable of the three? Therefore he was made their captain. However he wasn’t included as one of the three. 
2SM  23\v 17 He said, “Be it far from me, Yahweh, that I should do this! Isn’t this the blood of the men who risked their lives to go?” Therefore he would not drink it. The three mighty men did these things. 
2SM  23\v 21 He killed a huge Egyptian, and the Egyptian had a spear in his hand; but he went down to him with a staff, and plucked the spear out of the Egyptian’s hand, and killed him with his own spear. 
2SM  23\v 19 Wasn’t he most honorable of the three? Therefore he was made their captain. However he wasn’t included as one of the three. 
2SM  23\v 23 He was more honorable than the thirty, but he didn’t attain to the three. David set him over his guard. 
2SM  23\v 21 He killed a huge Egyptian, and the Egyptian had a spear in his hand; but he went down to him with a staff and plucked the spear out of the Egyptian’s hand, and killed him with his own spear. 
2SM  23\v 25 Shammah the Harodite, Elika the Harodite, 
2SM  23\v 23 He was more honorable than the thirty, but he didn’t attain to the three. David set him over his guard. 
2SM  23\v 27 Abiezer the Anathothite, Mebunnai the Hushathite, 
2SM  23\v 25 Shammah the Harodite, Elika the Harodite, 
2SM  23\v 29 Heleb the son of Baanah the Netophathite, Ittai the son of Ribai of Gibeah of the children of Benjamin, 
2SM  23\v 27 Abiezer the Anathothite, Mebunnai the Hushathite, 
2SM  23\v 31 Abialbon the Arbathite, Azmaveth the Barhumite, 
2SM  23\v 29 Heleb the son of Baanah the Netophathite, Ittai the son of Ribai of Gibeah of the children of Benjamin, 
2SM  23\v 33 Shammah the Hararite, Ahiam the son of Sharar the Ararite, 
2SM  23\v 31 Abialbon the Arbathite, Azmaveth the Barhumite, 
2SM  23\v 35 Hezro the Carmelite, Paarai the Arbite, 
2SM  23\v 33 Shammah the Hararite, Ahiam the son of Sharar the Ararite, 
2SM  23\v 37 Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai the Beerothite, armor bearers to Joab the son of Zeruiah, 
2SM  23\v 35 Hezro the Carmelite, Paarai the Arbite, 
2SM  24\v 39 and Uriah the Hittite: thirty-seven in all. 
2SM  23\v 37 Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai the Beerothite, armor bearers to Joab the son of Zeruiah, 
2SM  24\v 1 Again Yahweh’s anger burned against Israel, and he moved David against them, saying, “Go, count Israel and Judah.” 
2SM  24\v 39 and Uriah the Hittite: thirty-seven in all. 
2SM  24\v 3 Joab said to the king, “Now may Yahweh your God add to the people, however many they may be, one hundred times; and may the eyes of my lord the king see it. But why does my lord the king delight in this thing?” 
2SM  24\v 1 Again Yahweh’s anger burned against Israel, and he moved David against them, saying, “Go, count Israel and Judah.” 
2SM  24\v 5 They passed over the Jordan, and encamped in Aroer, on the right side of the city that is in the middle of the valley of Gad, and to Jazer; 
2SM  24\v 3 Joab said to the king, “Now may Yahweh your God add to the people, however many they may be, one hundred times; and may the eyes of my lord the king see it. But why does my lord the king delight in this thing?” 
2SM  24\v 7 and came to the stronghold of Tyre, and to all the cities of the Hivites, and of the Canaanites; and they went out to the south of Judah, at Beersheba. 
2SM  24\v 5 They passed over the Jordan and encamped in Aroer, on the right side of the city that is in the middle of the valley of Gad, and to Jazer; 
2SM  24\v 9 Joab gave up the sum of the counting of the people to the king: and there were in Israel eight hundred thousand valiant men who drew the sword; and the men of Judah were five hundred thousand men. 
2SM  24\v 7 and came to the stronghold of Tyre, and to all the cities of the Hivites and of the Canaanites; and they went out to the south of Judah, at Beersheba. 
2SM  24\v 11 When David rose up in the morning, Yahweh’s word came to the prophet Gad, David’s seer, saying, 
2SM  24\v 9 Joab gave up the sum of the counting of the people to the king; and there were in Israel eight hundred thousand valiant men who drew the sword, and the men of Judah were five hundred thousand men. 
2SM  24\v 13 So Gad came to David, and told him, and said to him, “Shall seven years of famine come to you in your land? Or will you flee three months before your foes while they pursue you? Or shall there be three days’ pestilence in your land? Now answer, and consider what answer I shall return to him who sent me.” 
2SM  24\v 11 When David rose up in the morning, Yahweh’s word came to the prophet Gad, David’s seer, saying, 
2SM  24\v 15 So Yahweh sent a pestilence on Israel from the morning even to the appointed time; and seventy thousand men died of the people from Dan even to Beersheba. 
2SM  24\v 13 So Gad came to David, and told him, saying, “Shall seven years of famine come to you in your land? Or will you flee three months before your foes while they pursue you? Or shall there be three days’ pestilence in your land? Now answer, and consider what answer I shall return to him who sent me.” 
2SM  24\v 17 David spoke to Yahweh when he saw the angel who struck the people, and said, “Behold, I have sinned, and I have done perversely; but these sheep, what have they done? Please let your hand be against me, and against my father’s house.” 
2SM  24\v 15 So Yahweh sent a pestilence on Israel from the morning even to the appointed time; and seventy thousand men died of the people from Dan even to Beersheba. 
2SM  24\v 19 David went up according to the saying of Gad, as Yahweh commanded. 
2SM  24\v 17 David spoke to Yahweh when he saw the angel who struck the people, and said, “Behold, I have sinned, and I have done perversely; but these sheep, what have they done? Please let your hand be against me, and against my father’s house.” 
2SM  24\v 21 Araunah said, “Why has my lord the king come to his servant?” 
2SM  24\v 19 David went up according to the saying of Gad, as Yahweh commanded. 
2SM  24\v 23 All this, O king, does Araunah give to the king.” Araunah said to the king, “May Yahweh your God accept you.” 
2SM  24\v 21 Araunah said, “Why has my lord the king come to his servant?” 
2SM  24\v 25 David built an altar to Yahweh there, and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings. So Yahweh was entreated for the land, and the plague was removed from Israel. 2SM  24\v 23 All this, O king, does Araunah give to the king.” Araunah said to the king, “May Yahweh your God accept you.” 
1KI   1\v 7 He conferred with Joab the son of Zeruiah, and with Abiathar the priest; and they followed Adonijah and helped him. 
1KI   1\v 7 He conferred with Joab the son of Zeruiah and with Abiathar the priest; and they followed Adonijah and helped him. 
1KI   1\v 13 Go in to king David, and tell him, ‘Didn’t you, my lord, king, swear to your servant, saying, “Assuredly Solomon your son shall reign after me, and he shall sit on my throne?” Why then does Adonijah reign?’ 
1KI   1\v 13 Go in to king David, and tell him, ‘Didn’t you, my lord the king, swear to your servant, saying, “Assuredly Solomon your son shall reign after me, and he shall sit on my throne?” Why then does Adonijah reign?’ 
1KI   1\v 29 The king swore, and said, “As Yahweh lives, who has redeemed my soul out of all adversity, 
1KI   1\v 29 The king vowed and said, “As Yahweh lives, who has redeemed my soul out of all adversity, 
1KI   1\v 31 Then Bathsheba bowed with her face to the earth, and showed respect to the king, and said, “Let my lord king David live forever!” 
1KI   1\v 31 Then Bathsheba bowed with her face to the earth and showed respect to the king, and said, “Let my lord king David live forever!” 
1KI   2\v 3 and keep the instruction of Yahweh your God, to walk in his ways, to keep his statutes, his commandments, his ordinances, and his testimonies, according to that which is written in the law of Moses, that you may prosper in all that you do, and wherever you turn yourself. 
1KI   2\v 3 and keep the instruction of Yahweh your God, to walk in his ways, to keep his statutes, his commandments, his ordinances, and his testimonies, according to that which is written in the law of Moses, that you may prosper in all that you do and wherever you turn yourself. 
1KI   2\v 5 “Moreover you know also what Joab the son of Zeruiah did to me, even what he did to the two captains of the armies of Israel, to Abner the son of Ner, and to Amasa the son of Jether, whom he killed, and shed the blood of war in peace, and put the blood of war on his sash that was around his waist, and in his sandals that were on his feet. 
1KI   2\v 5 “Moreover you know also what Joab the son of Zeruiah did to me, even what he did to the two captains of the armies of Israel, to Abner the son of Ner and to Amasa the son of Jether, whom he killed, and shed the blood of war in peace, and put the blood of war on his sash that was around his waist and in his sandals that were on his feet. 
1KI   2\v 15 He said, “You know that the kingdom was mine, and that all Israel set their faces on me, that I should reign. However the kingdom is turned around, and has become my brother’s; for it was his from Yahweh. 
1KI   2\v 15 He said, “You know that the kingdom was mine, and that all Israel set their faces on me, that I should reign. However, the kingdom is turned around, and has become my brother’s; for it was his from Yahweh. 
1KI   2\v 19 Bathsheba therefore went to king Solomon, to speak to him for Adonijah. The king rose up to meet her, and bowed himself to her, and sat down on his throne, and caused a throne to be set for the king’s mother; and she sat on his right hand. 
1KI   2\v 19 Bathsheba therefore went to king Solomon, to speak to him for Adonijah. The king rose up to meet her and bowed himself to her, and sat down on his throne and caused a throne to be set for the king’s mother; and she sat on his right hand. 
1KI   2\v 27 So Solomon thrust Abiathar out from being priest to Yahweh, that he might fulfill Yahweh’s word, which he spoke concerning the house of Eli in Shiloh. 
1KI   2\v 27 So Solomon thrust Abiathar out from being priest to Yahweh, that he might fulfill Yahweh’s word which he spoke concerning the house of Eli in Shiloh. 
1KI   2\v 29 King Solomon was told, “Joab has fled to Yahweh’s Tent, and behold, he is by the altar.” Then Solomon sent Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, saying, “Go, fall on him.” 
1KI   2\v 29 King Solomon was told, “Joab has fled to Yahweh’s Tent; and behold, he is by the altar.” Then Solomon sent Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, saying, “Go, fall on him.” 
1KI   2\v 31 The king said to him, “Do as he has said, and fall on him, and bury him; that you may take away the blood, which Joab shed without cause, from me and from my father’s house. 
1KI   2\v 31 The king said to him, “Do as he has said, and fall on him, and bury him, that you may take away the blood, which Joab shed without cause, from me and from my father’s house. 
1KI   2\v 33 So their blood will return on the head of Joab, and on the head of his offspring\f + \fr 2:33  \ft or, seed\f* forever. But for David, for his offspring, for his house, and for his throne, there will be peace forever from Yahweh.” 
1KI   2\v 33 So their blood will return on the head of Joab and on the head of his offspring\f + \fr 2:33  \ft or, seed\f* forever. But for David, for his offspring, for his house, and for his throne, there will be peace forever from Yahweh.” 
1KI   2\v 43 Why then have you not kept the oath of Yahweh, and the commandment that I have instructed you with?” 
1KI   2\v 43 Why then have you not kept the oath of Yahweh and the commandment that I have instructed you with?” 
1KI   3\v 1 Solomon made an alliance with Pharaoh king of Egypt, and took Pharaoh’s daughter, and brought her into David’s city, until he had finished building his own house, Yahweh’s house, and the wall around Jerusalem. 
1KI   3\v 1 Solomon made a marriage alliance with Pharaoh king of Egypt. He took Pharaoh’s daughter and brought her into David’s city until he had finished building his own house, Yahweh’s house, and the wall around Jerusalem. 
1KI   3\v 3 Solomon loved Yahweh, walking in the statutes of David his father; except that he sacrificed and burned incense in the high places. 
1KI   3\v 3 Solomon loved Yahweh, walking in the statutes of David his father, except that he sacrificed and burned incense in the high places. 
1KI   3\v 11 God said to him, “Because you have asked this thing, and have not asked for yourself long life, nor have you asked for riches for yourself, nor have you asked for the life of your enemies, but have asked for yourself understanding to discern justice; 
1KI   3\v 11 God said to him, “Because you have asked this thing, and have not asked for yourself long life, nor have you asked for riches for yourself, nor have you asked for the life of your enemies, but have asked for yourself understanding to discern justice, 
1KI   3\v 15 Solomon awoke; and behold, it was a dream. Then he came to Jerusalem, and stood before the ark of Yahweh’s covenant, and offered up burnt offerings, offered peace offerings, and made a feast for all his servants. 
1KI   3\v 15 Solomon awoke; and behold, it was a dream. Then he came to Jerusalem and stood before the ark of Yahweh’s covenant, and offered up burnt offerings, offered peace offerings, and made a feast for all his servants. 
1KI   3\v 21 When I rose in the morning to nurse my child, behold, it was dead; but when I had looked at it in the morning, behold, it was not my son, whom I bore.” 
1KI   3\v 21 When I rose in the morning to nurse my child, behold, he was dead; but when I had looked at him in the morning, behold, it was not my son whom I bore.” 
1KI   3\v 23 Then the king said, “One says, ‘This is my son who lives, and your son is the dead;’ and the other says, ‘No; but your son is the dead one, and my son is the living one.’” 
1KI   3\v 23 Then the king said, “One says, ‘This is my son who lives, and your son is the dead;’ and the other says, ‘No! But your son is the dead one, and my son is the living one.’” 
1KI   3\v 27 Then the king answered, “Give her the living child, and definitely do not kill him. She is his mother.” 
1KI   3\v 27 Then the king answered, “Give the first woman the living child, and definitely do not kill him. She is his mother.” 
1KI   4\v 23 ten head of fat cattle, twenty head of cattle out of the pastures, and one hundred sheep, in addition to deer, and gazelles, and roebucks, and fattened fowl. 
1KI   4\v 23 ten head of fat cattle, twenty head of cattle out of the pastures, and one hundred sheep, in addition to deer, gazelles, roebucks, and fattened fowl. 
1KI   4\v 29 God gave Solomon abundant wisdom and understanding, and very great understanding, even as the sand that is on the seashore. 
1KI   4\v 29 God gave Solomon abundant wisdom, understanding, and breadth of mind like the sand that is on the seashore. 
1KI   4\v 31 For he was wiser than all men; than Ethan the Ezrahite, Heman, Calcol, and Darda, the sons of Mahol: and his fame was in all the nations all around. 
1KI   4\v 31 For he was wiser than all men—wiser than Ethan the Ezrahite, Heman, Calcol, and Darda, the sons of Mahol; and his fame was in all the nations all around. 
1KI   5\v 1 Hiram king of Tyre sent his servants to Solomon; for he had heard that they had anointed him king in the place of his father, and Hiram had always loved David. 
1KI   5\v 1 Hiram king of Tyre sent his servants to Solomon, for he had heard that they had anointed him king in the place of his father, and Hiram had always loved David. 
1KI   5\v 15 Solomon had seventy thousand who bore burdens, and eighty thousand who were stone cutters in the mountains; 
1KI   5\v 15 Solomon had seventy thousand who bore burdens, and eighty thousand who were stone cutters in the mountains, 
1KI   6\v 9 So he built the house, and finished it; and he covered the house with beams and planks of cedar. 
1KI   6\v 9 So he built the house and finished it; and he covered the house with beams and planks of cedar. 
1KI   6\v 15 He built the walls of the house within with boards of cedar: from the floor of the house to the walls of the ceiling, he covered them on the inside with wood; and he covered the floor of the house with cypress boards. 
1KI   6\v 15 He built the walls of the house within with boards of cedar; from the floor of the house to the walls of the ceiling, he covered them on the inside with wood. He covered the floor of the house with cypress boards. 
1KI   6\v 17 In front of the temple sanctuary was forty cubits. 
1KI   6\v 17 In front of the temple sanctuary was forty cubits long. 
1KI   6\v 27 He set the cherubim within the inner house. The wings of the cherubim were stretched out, so that the wing of the one touched the one wall, and the wing of the other cherub touched the other wall; and their wings touched one another in the middle of the house. 
1KI   6\v 27 He set the cherubim within the inner house. The wings of the cherubim were stretched out, so that the wing of the one touched the one wall and the wing of the other cherub touched the other wall; and their wings touched one another in the middle of the house. 
1KI   6\v 33 He also did so for the entrance of the temple door posts of olive wood, out of a fourth part of the wall; 
1KI   6\v 33 He also made the entrance of the temple door posts of olive wood, out of a fourth part of the wall, 
1KI   7\v 3 It was covered with cedar above over the forty-five beams, that were on the pillars, fifteen in a row. 
1KI   7\v 3 It was covered with cedar above over the forty-five beams that were on the pillars, fifteen in a row. 
1KI   7\v 5 All the doors and posts were made square with beams: and window was facing window in three ranks. 
1KI   7\v 5 All the doors and posts were made square with beams; and window was facing window in three ranks. 
1KI   7\v 9 All these were of costly stones, even of cut stone, according to measure, sawed with saws, inside and outside, even from the foundation to the coping, and so on the outside to the great court. 
1KI   7\v 9 All these were of costly stones, even of stone cut according to measure, sawed with saws, inside and outside, even from the foundation to the coping, and so on the outside to the great court. 
1KI   7\v 17 There were nets of checker work, and wreaths of chain work, for the capitals which were on the top of the pillars; seven for the one capital, and seven for the other capital. 
1KI   7\v 17 There were nets of checker work and wreaths of chain work for the capitals which were on the top of the pillars: seven for the one capital, and seven for the other capital. 
1KI   7\v 21 He set up the pillars at the porch of the temple. He set up the right pillar, and called its name Jachin; and he set up the left pillar, and called its name Boaz. 
1KI   7\v 21 He set up the pillars at the porch of the temple. He set up the right pillar and called its name Jachin; and he set up the left pillar and called its name Boaz. 
1KI   7\v 23 He made the molten sea of ten cubits from brim to brim, round in shape. Its height was five cubits; and a line of thirty cubits encircled it. 
1KI   7\v 23 He made the molten sea ten cubits from brim to brim, round in shape. Its height was five cubits; and a line of thirty cubits encircled it. 
1KI   7\v 31 Its mouth within the capital and above was a cubit. Its mouth was round after the work of a pedestal, a cubit and a half; and also on its mouth were engravings, and their panels were square, not round. 
1KI   7\v 31 Its opening within the capital and above was a cubit. Its opening was round like the work of a pedestal, a cubit and a half; and also on its opening were engravings, and their panels were square, not round. 
1KI   7\v 33 The work of the wheels was like the work of a chariot wheel. Their axles, and their rims, and their spokes, and their naves, were all of cast metal. 
1KI   7\v 33 The work of the wheels was like the work of a chariot wheel. Their axles, their rims, their spokes, and their hubs were all of cast metal. 
1KI   7\v 39 He set the bases, five on the right side of the house, and five on the left side of the house. He set the sea on the right side of the house eastward and toward the south. 
1KI   7\v 39 He set the bases, five on the right side of the house and five on the left side of the house. He set the sea on the right side of the house eastward and toward the south. 
1KI   7\v 45 the pots; the shovels; and the basins: even all these vessels, which Hiram made for king Solomon, in Yahweh’s house, were of burnished bronze. 
1KI   7\v 45 the pots; the shovels; and the basins. All of these vessels, which Hiram made for king Solomon in Yahweh’s house, were of burnished bronze. 
1KI   7\v 49 and the lamp stands, five on the right side, and five on the left, before the inner sanctuary, of pure gold; and the flowers, the lamps, and the tongs, of gold; 
1KI   7\v 49 and the lamp stands, five on the right side and five on the left, in front of the inner sanctuary, of pure gold; and the flowers, the lamps, and the tongs, of gold; 
1KI   8\v 51 Thus all the work that king Solomon did in Yahweh’s house was finished. Solomon brought in the things which David his father had dedicated, the silver, the gold, and the vessels, and put them in the treasuries of Yahweh’s house. 
1KI   8\v 51 Thus all the work that king Solomon did in Yahweh’s house was finished. Solomon brought in the things which David his father had dedicated—the silver, the gold, and the vessels—and put them in the treasuries of Yahweh’s house. 
1KI   8\v 1 Then Solomon assembled the elders of Israel, with all the heads of the tribes, the princes of the fathers’ households of the children of Israel, to king Solomon in Jerusalem, to bring up the ark of Yahweh’s covenant out of David’s city, which is Zion. 
1KI   8\v 1 Then Solomon assembled the elders of Israel with all the heads of the tribes, the princes of the fathers’ households of the children of Israel, to king Solomon in Jerusalem, to bring up the ark of Yahweh’s covenant out of David’s city, which is Zion. 
1KI   8\v 5 King Solomon and all the congregation of Israel, who were assembled to him, were with him before the ark, sacrificing sheep and cattle, that could not be counted or numbered for multitude. 
1KI   8\v 5 King Solomon and all the congregation of Israel, who were assembled to him, were with him before the ark, sacrificing sheep and cattle that could not be counted or numbered for multitude. 
1KI   8\v 21 There I have set a place for the ark, in which is Yahweh’s covenant, which he made with our fathers, when he brought them out of the land of Egypt.” 
1KI   8\v 21 There I have set a place for the ark, in which is Yahweh’s covenant, which he made with our fathers when he brought them out of the land of Egypt.” 
1KI   8\v 23 and he said, “Yahweh, the God of Israel, there is no God like you, in heaven above, or on earth beneath; who keeps covenant and loving kindness with your servants, who walk before you with all their heart; 
1KI   8\v 23 and he said, “Yahweh, the God of Israel, there is no God like you, in heaven above, or on earth beneath; who keeps covenant and loving kindness with your servants who walk before you with all their heart; 
1KI   8\v 31 “If a man sins against his neighbor, and an oath is laid on him to cause him to swear, and he comes and swears before your altar in this house; 
1KI   8\v 31 “If a man sins against his neighbor, and an oath is laid on him to cause him to swear, and he comes and swears before your altar in this house, 
1KI   8\v 33 “When your people Israel are struck down before the enemy, because they have sinned against you; if they turn again to you, and confess your name, and pray and make supplication to you in this house; 
1KI   8\v 33 “When your people Israel are struck down before the enemy because they have sinned against you, if they turn again to you and confess your name, and pray and make supplication to you in this house, 
1KI   8\v 35 “When the sky is shut up, and there is no rain, because they have sinned against you; if they pray toward this place, and confess your name, and turn from their sin, when you afflict them, 
1KI   8\v 35 “When the sky is shut up and there is no rain because they have sinned against you, if they pray toward this place and confess your name, and turn from their sin when you afflict them, 
1KI   8\v 37 “If there is famine in the land, if there is pestilence, if there is blight, mildew, locust or caterpillar; if their enemy besieges them in the land of their cities; whatever plague, whatever sickness there is; 
1KI   8\v 37 “If there is famine in the land, if there is pestilence, if there is blight, mildew, locust or caterpillar; if their enemy besieges them in the land of their cities, whatever plague, whatever sickness there is, 
1KI   8\v 41 “Moreover concerning the foreigner, who is not of your people Israel, when he comes out of a far country for your name’s sake 
1KI   8\v 41 “Moreover, concerning the foreigner, who is not of your people Israel, when he comes out of a far country for your name’s sake 
1KI   8\v 47 yet if they repent in the land where they are carried captive, and turn again, and make supplication to you in the land of those who carried them captive, saying, ‘We have sinned, and have done perversely; we have dealt wickedly;’ 
1KI   8\v 47 yet if they repent in the land where they are carried captive, and turn again, and make supplication to you in the land of those who carried them captive, saying, ‘We have sinned and have done perversely; we have dealt wickedly,’ 
1KI   8\v 51 (for they are your people, and your inheritance, which you brought out of Egypt, from the middle of the iron furnace); 
1KI   8\v 51 (for they are your people and your inheritance, which you brought out of Egypt, from the middle of the iron furnace); 
1KI   8\v 53 For you separated them from among all the peoples of the earth, to be your inheritance, as you spoke by Moses your servant, when you brought our fathers out of Egypt, Lord Yahweh.” 
1KI   8\v 53 For you separated them from among all the peoples of the earth to be your inheritance, as you spoke by Moses your servant, when you brought our fathers out of Egypt, Lord Yahweh.” 
1KI   8\v 55 He stood, and blessed all the assembly of Israel with a loud voice, saying, 
1KI   8\v 55 He stood and blessed all the assembly of Israel with a loud voice, saying, 
1KI   8\v 57 May Yahweh our God be with us, as he was with our fathers. Let him not leave us or forsake us; 
1KI   8\v 57 May Yahweh our God be with us as he was with our fathers. Let him not leave us or forsake us, 
1KI   8\v 59 Let these my words, with which I have made supplication before Yahweh, be near to Yahweh our God day and night, that he may maintain the cause of his servant, and the cause of his people Israel, as every day requires; 
1KI   8\v 59 Let these my words, with which I have made supplication before Yahweh, be near to Yahweh our God day and night, that he may maintain the cause of his servant and the cause of his people Israel, as every day requires; 
1KI   8\v 63 Solomon offered for the sacrifice of peace offerings, which he offered to Yahweh, twenty two thousand head of cattle, and one hundred twenty thousand sheep. So the king and all the children of Israel dedicated Yahweh’s house. 
1KI   8\v 63 Solomon offered for the sacrifice of peace offerings, which he offered to Yahweh, twenty two thousand head of cattle and one hundred twenty thousand sheep. So the king and all the children of Israel dedicated Yahweh’s house. 
1KI   9\v 3 Yahweh said to him, “I have heard your prayer and your supplication, that you have made before me. I have made this house holy, which you have built, to put my name there forever; and my eyes and my heart shall be there perpetually. 
1KI   9\v 3 Yahweh said to him, “I have heard your prayer and your supplication that you have made before me. I have made this house holy, which you have built, to put my name there forever; and my eyes and my heart shall be there perpetually. 
1KI   9\v 15 This is the reason of the levy which king Solomon raised, to build Yahweh’s house, his own house, Millo, Jerusalem’s wall, Hazor, Megiddo, and Gezer. 
1KI   9\v 15 This is the reason of the forced labor which king Solomon conscripted: to build Yahweh’s house, his own house, Millo, Jerusalem’s wall, Hazor, Megiddo, and Gezer. 
1KI   9\v 21 their children who were left after them in the land, whom the children of Israel were not able utterly to destroy, of them Solomon raised a levy of bondservants to this day. 
1KI   9\v 21 their children who were left after them in the land, whom the children of Israel were not able utterly to destroy—of them Solomon raised a levy of bondservants to this day. 
1KI   9\v 25 Solomon offered burnt offerings and peace offerings on the altar which he built to Yahweh three times per year, burning incense with them, on the altar that was before Yahweh. So he finished the house. 
1KI   9\v 25 Solomon offered burnt offerings and peace offerings on the altar which he built to Yahweh three times per year, burning incense with them on the altar that was before Yahweh. So he finished the house. 
1KI  10\v 5 the food of his table, the sitting of his servants, the attendance of his officials, their clothing, his cup bearers, and his ascent by which he went up to Yahweh’s house; there was no more spirit in her. 
1KI  10\v 5 the food of his table, the sitting of his servants, the attendance of his officials, their clothing, his cup bearers, and his ascent by which he went up to Yahweh’s house, there was no more spirit in her. 
1KI  10\v 7 However I didn’t believe the words until I came and my eyes had seen it. Behold, not even half was told me! Your wisdom and prosperity exceed the fame which I heard. 
1KI  10\v 7 However, I didn’t believe the words until I came and my eyes had seen it. Behold, not even half was told me! Your wisdom and prosperity exceed the fame which I heard. 
1KI  10\v 11 The fleet of Hiram that brought gold from Ophir, also brought in from Ophir great quantities of almug trees\f + \fr 10:11  \ft possibly an Indian sandalwood, with nice grain and a pleasant scent, and good for woodworking\f* and precious stones. 
1KI  10\v 11 The fleet of Hiram that brought gold from Ophir also brought in from Ophir great quantities of almug trees\f + \fr 10:11  \ft possibly an Indian sandalwood, with nice grain and a pleasant scent, and good for woodworking\f* and precious stones. 
1KI  10\v 17 he made three hundred shields of beaten gold; three minas\f + \fr 10:17  \ft A mina is about 600 grams or 1.3 U. S. pounds.\f* of gold went to one shield; and the king put them in the House of the Forest of Lebanon. 
1KI  10\v 17 He made three hundred shields of beaten gold; three minas\f + \fr 10:17  \ft A mina is about 600 grams or 1.3 U. S. pounds.\f* of gold went to one shield; and the king put them in the House of the Forest of Lebanon. 
1KI  11\v 29 A chariot came up and went out of Egypt for six hundred shekels\f + \fr 10:29  \ft A shekel is about 10 grams or about 0.35 ounces.\f* of silver, and a horse for one hundred fifty shekels; and so they exported them to all the kings of the Hittites, and to the kings of Syria. 
1KI  11\v 29 A chariot was imported from Egypt for six hundred shekels\f + \fr 10:29  \ft A shekel is about 10 grams or about 0.35 ounces.\f* of silver, and a horse for one hundred fifty shekels; and so they exported them to all the kings of the Hittites and to the kings of Syria. 
1KI  11\v 1 Now king Solomon loved many foreign women, together with the daughter of Pharaoh, women of the Moabites, Ammonites, Edomites, Sidonians, and Hittites; 
1KI  11\v 1 Now king Solomon loved many foreign women, together with the daughter of Pharaoh: women of the Moabites, Ammonites, Edomites, Sidonians, and Hittites, 
1KI  11\v 13 However I will not tear away all the kingdom; but I will give one tribe to your son, for David my servant’s sake, and for Jerusalem’s sake which I have chosen.” 
1KI  11\v 13 However, I will not tear away all the kingdom; but I will give one tribe to your son, for David my servant’s sake, and for Jerusalem’s sake which I have chosen.” 
1KI  11\v 23 God raised up an adversary to him, Rezon the son of Eliada, who had fled from his lord Hadadezer king of Zobah. 
1KI  11\v 23 God raised up an adversary to him, Rezon the son of Eliada, who had fled from his lord, Hadadezer king of Zobah. 
1KI  11\v 31 He said to Jeroboam, “Take ten pieces; for Yahweh, the God of Israel, says, ‘Behold, I will tear the kingdom out of the hand of Solomon, and will give ten tribes to you 
1KI  11\v 31 He said to Jeroboam, “Take ten pieces; for Yahweh, the God of Israel, says, ‘Behold, I will tear the kingdom out of the hand of Solomon and will give ten tribes to you 
1KI  11\v 35 but I will take the kingdom out of his son’s hand, and will give it to you, even ten tribes. 
1KI  11\v 35 but I will take the kingdom out of his son’s hand and will give it to you, even ten tribes. 
1KI  12\v 9 He said to them, “What counsel do you give, that we may answer these people, who have spoken to me, saying, ‘Make the yoke that your father put on us lighter?’” 
1KI  12\v 9 He said to them, “What counsel do you give, that we may answer these people who have spoken to me, saying, ‘Make the yoke that your father put on us lighter?’” 
1KI  12\v 21 When Rehoboam had come to Jerusalem, he assembled all the house of Judah and the tribe of Benjamin, a hundred and eighty thousand chosen men, who were warriors, to fight against the house of Israel, to bring the kingdom again to Rehoboam the son of Solomon. 
1KI  12\v 21 When Rehoboam had come to Jerusalem, he assembled all the house of Judah and the tribe of Benjamin, a hundred and eighty thousand chosen men who were warriors, to fight against the house of Israel, to bring the kingdom again to Rehoboam the son of Solomon. 
1KI  12\v 25 Then Jeroboam built Shechem in the hill country of Ephraim, and lived in it; and he went out from there, and built Penuel. 
1KI  12\v 25 Then Jeroboam built Shechem in the hill country of Ephraim, and lived in it; and he went out from there and built Penuel. 
1KI  13\v 33 He went up to the altar which he had made in Bethel on the fifteenth day in the eighth month, even in the month which he had devised of his own heart; and he ordained a feast for the children of Israel, and went up to the altar, to burn incense. 
1KI  13\v 33 He went up to the altar which he had made in Bethel on the fifteenth day in the eighth month, even in the month which he had devised of his own heart; and he ordained a feast for the children of Israel, and went up to the altar to burn incense. 
1KI  13\v 7 The king said to the man of God, “Come home with me, and refresh yourself, and I will give you a reward.” 
1KI  13\v 7 The king said to the man of God, “Come home with me and refresh yourself, and I will give you a reward.” 
1KI  13\v 15 Then he said to him, “Come home with me, and eat bread.” 
1KI  13\v 15 Then he said to him, “Come home with me and eat bread.” 
1KI  13\v 21 and he cried out to the man of God who came from Judah, saying, “Yahweh says, ‘Because you have been disobedient to Yahweh’s mouth, and have not kept the commandment which Yahweh your God commanded you, 
1KI  13\v 21 and he cried out to the man of God who came from Judah, saying, “Yahweh says, ‘Because you have been disobedient to Yahweh’s word, and have not kept the commandment which Yahweh your God commanded you, 
1KI  13\v 23 After he had eaten bread, and after he drank, he saddled the donkey for the prophet whom he had brought back. 
1KI  13\v 23 After he had eaten bread and after he drank, he saddled the donkey for the prophet whom he had brought back. 
1KI  13\v 25 Behold, men passed by, and saw the body thrown on the path, and the lion standing by the body; and they came and told it in the city where the old prophet lived. 
1KI  13\v 25 Behold, men passed by and saw the body thrown on the path, and the lion standing by the body; and they came and told it in the city where the old prophet lived. 
1KI  13\v 33 After this thing Jeroboam didn’t return from his evil way, but again made priests of the high places from among all the people. Whoever wanted to, he consecrated him, that there might be priests of the high places. 
1KI  13\v 33 After this thing, Jeroboam didn’t turn from his evil way, but again made priests of the high places from among all the people. Whoever wanted to, he consecrated him, that there might be priests of the high places. 
1KI  14\v 5 Yahweh said to Ahijah, “Behold, Jeroboam’s wife is coming to inquire of you concerning her son; for he is sick. Tell her such and such; for it will be, when she comes in, that she will pretend to be another woman.” 
1KI  14\v 5 Yahweh said to Ahijah, “Behold, Jeroboam’s wife is coming to inquire of you concerning her son, for he is sick. Tell her such and such; for it will be, when she comes in, that she will pretend to be another woman.” 
1KI  14\v 9 but have done evil above all who were before you, and have gone and made for yourself other gods, molten images, to provoke me to anger, and have cast me behind your back; 
1KI  14\v 9 but have done evil above all who were before you, and have gone and made for yourself other gods, molten images, to provoke me to anger, and have cast me behind your back, 
1KI  14\v 11 The dogs will eat he who belongs to Jeroboam who dies in the city; and the birds of the sky will eat he who dies in the field: for Yahweh has spoken it.”’ 
1KI  14\v 11 The dogs will eat he who belongs to Jeroboam who dies in the city; and the birds of the sky will eat he who dies in the field, for Yahweh has spoken it.”’ 
1KI  14\v 19 The rest of the acts of Jeroboam, how he fought, and how he reigned, behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel. 
1KI  14\v 19 The rest of the acts of Jeroboam, how he fought and how he reigned, behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel. 
1KI  14\v 25 In the fifth year of king Rehoboam, Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem, 
1KI  14\v 25 In the fifth year of king Rehoboam, Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem; 
1KI  15\v 19 “There is a treaty between me and you, between my father and your father. Behold, I have sent to you a present of silver and gold. Go, break your treaty with Baasha king of Israel, that he may depart from me.” 
1KI  15\v 19 “Let there be a treaty between me and you, like that between my father and your father. Behold, I have sent to you a present of silver and gold. Go, break your treaty with Baasha king of Israel, that he may depart from me.” 
1KI  15\v 29 As soon as he was king, he struck all the house of Jeroboam. He didn’t leave to Jeroboam any who breathed, until he had destroyed him; according to the saying of Yahweh, which he spoke by his servant Ahijah the Shilonite; 
1KI  15\v 29 As soon as he was king, he struck all the house of Jeroboam. He didn’t leave to Jeroboam any who breathed, until he had destroyed him, according to the saying of Yahweh, which he spoke by his servant Ahijah the Shilonite; 
1KI  16\v 13 for all the sins of Baasha, and the sins of Elah his son, which they sinned, and with which they made Israel to sin, to provoke Yahweh, the God of Israel, to anger with their vanities. 
1KI  16\v 13 for all the sins of Baasha, and the sins of Elah his son, which they sinned and with which they made Israel to sin, to provoke Yahweh, the God of Israel, to anger with their vanities. 
1KI  16\v 19 for his sins which he sinned in doing that which was evil in Yahweh’s sight, in walking in the way of Jeroboam, and in his sin which he did, to make Israel to sin. 
1KI  16\v 19 for his sins which he sinned in doing that which was evil in Yahweh’s sight, in walking in the way of Jeroboam, and in his sin which he did to make Israel to sin. 
1KI  16\v 21 Then the people of Israel were divided into two parts: half of the people followed Tibni the son of Ginath, to make him king; and half followed Omri. 
1KI  16\v 21 Then the people of Israel were divided into two parts: half of the people followed Tibni the son of Ginath, to make him king, and half followed Omri. 
1KI  16\v 31 As if it had been a light thing for him to walk in the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, he took as wife Jezebel the daughter of Ethbaal king of the Sidonians, and went and served Baal, and worshiped him. 
1KI  16\v 31 As if it had been a light thing for him to walk in the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, he took as wife Jezebel the daughter of Ethbaal king of the Sidonians, and went and served Baal and worshiped him. 
1KI  17\v 5 So he went and did according to Yahweh’s word; for he went and lived by the brook Cherith that is before the Jordan. 
1KI  17\v 5 So he went and did according to Yahweh’s word, for he went and lived by the brook Cherith that is before the Jordan. 
1KI  17\v 11 As she was going to get it, he called to her, and said, “Please bring me a morsel of bread in your hand.” 
1KI  17\v 11 As she was going to get it, he called to her and said, “Please bring me a morsel of bread in your hand.” 
1KI  17\v 15 She went and did according to the saying of Elijah; and she, and he, and her house, ate many days. 
1KI  17\v 15 She went and did according to the saying of Elijah; and she, he, and her household ate many days. 
1KI  17\v 21 He stretched himself on the child three times, and cried to Yahweh, and said, “Yahweh my God, please let this child’s soul come into him again.” 
1KI  17\v 21 He stretched himself on the child three times, and cried to Yahweh and said, “Yahweh my God, please let this child’s soul come into him again.” 
1KI  17\v 23 Elijah took the child, and brought him down out of the room into the house, and delivered him to his mother; and Elijah said, “Behold, your son lives.” 
1KI  17\v 23 Elijah took the child and brought him down out of the room into the house, and delivered him to his mother; and Elijah said, “Behold, your son lives.” 
1KI  18\v 25 Elijah said to the prophets of Baal, “Choose one bull for yourselves, and dress it first; for you are many; and call on the name of your god, but put no fire under it.” 
1KI  18\v 25 Elijah said to the prophets of Baal, “Choose one bull for yourselves, and dress it first, for you are many; and call on the name of your god, but put no fire under it.” 
1KI  18\v 27 At noon, Elijah mocked them, and said, “Cry aloud; for he is a god. Either he is deep in thought, or he has gone somewhere, or he is on a journey, or perhaps he sleeps and must be awakened.” 
1KI  18\v 27 At noon, Elijah mocked them, and said, “Cry aloud, for he is a god. Either he is deep in thought, or he has gone somewhere, or he is on a journey, or perhaps he sleeps and must be awakened.” 
1KI  18\v 33 He put the wood in order, and cut the bull in pieces, and laid it on the wood. He said, “Fill four jars with water, and pour it on the burnt offering, and on the wood.” 
1KI  18\v 33 He put the wood in order, and cut the bull in pieces and laid it on the wood. He said, “Fill four jars with water, and pour it on the burnt offering and on the wood.” 
1KI  18\v 43 He said to his servant, “Go up now, and look toward the sea.” 
1KI  18\v 43 He said to his servant, “Go up now and look toward the sea.” 
1KI  19\v 3 When he saw that, he arose, and ran for his life, and came to Beersheba, which belongs to Judah, and left his servant there. 
1KI  19\v 3 When he saw that, he arose and ran for his life, and came to Beersheba, which belongs to Judah, and left his servant there. 
1KI  19\v 11 He said, “Go out, and stand on the mountain before Yahweh.” 
1KI  19\v 11 He said, “Go out and stand on the mountain before Yahweh.” 
1KI  19\v 19 So he departed from there, and found Elisha the son of Shaphat, who was plowing with twelve yoke of oxen before him, and he with the twelfth. Elijah went over to him, and put his mantle on him. 
1KI  19\v 19 So he departed from there and found Elisha the son of Shaphat, who was plowing with twelve yoke of oxen before him, and he with the twelfth. Elijah went over to him and put his mantle on him. 
1KI  20\v 21 He returned from following him, and took the yoke of oxen, and killed them, and boiled their meat with the instruments of the oxen, and gave to the people, and they ate. Then he arose, and went after Elijah, and served him. 
1KI  20\v 21 He returned from following him, and took the yoke of oxen, killed them, and boiled their meat with the oxen’s equipment, and gave to the people; and they ate. Then he arose, and went after Elijah, and served him. 
1KI  20\v 3 ‘Your silver and your gold is mine. Your wives also and your children, even the best, are mine.’” 
1KI  20\v 3 ‘Your silver and your gold are mine. Your wives also and your children, even the best, are mine.’” 
1KI  20\v 5 The messengers came again, and said, “Ben Hadad says, ‘I sent indeed to you, saying, “You shall deliver me your silver, and your gold, and your wives, and your children; 
1KI  20\v 5 The messengers came again and said, “Ben Hadad says, ‘I sent indeed to you, saying, “You shall deliver me your silver, your gold, your wives, and your children; 
1KI  20\v 9 Therefore he said to the messengers of Ben Hadad, “Tell my lord the king, ‘All that you sent for to your servant at the first I will do; but this thing I cannot do.’” 
1KI  20\v 9 Therefore he said to the messengers of Ben Hadad, “Tell my lord the king, ‘All that you sent for to your servant at the first I will do, but this thing I cannot do.’” 
1KI  20\v 21 The king of Israel went out, and struck the horses and chariots, and killed the Syrians with a great slaughter. 
1KI  20\v 21 The king of Israel went out and struck the horses and chariots, and killed the Syrians with a great slaughter. 
1KI  20\v 25 Muster an army, like the army that you have lost, horse for horse, and chariot for chariot. We will fight against them in the plain, and surely we will be stronger than they are.” 
1KI  20\v 25 Muster an army like the army that you have lost, horse for horse and chariot for chariot. We will fight against them in the plain, and surely we will be stronger than they are.” 
1KI  20\v 27 The children of Israel were mustered and given provisions, and went against them. The children of Israel encamped before them like two little flocks of young goats; but the Syrians filled the country. 
1KI  20\v 27 The children of Israel were mustered and given provisions, and went against them. The children of Israel encamped before them like two little flocks of young goats, but the Syrians filled the country. 
1KI  20\v 29 They encamped opposite each other for seven days. So it was, that in the seventh day the battle was joined; and the children of Israel killed one hundred thousand footmen of the Syrians in one day. 
1KI  20\v 29 They encamped opposite each other for seven days. Then on the seventh day the battle was joined; and the children of Israel killed one hundred thousand footmen of the Syrians in one day. 
1KI  20\v 31 His servants said to him, “See now, we have heard that the kings of the house of Israel are merciful kings. Please let us put sackcloth on our bodies, and ropes on our heads, and go out to the king of Israel. Maybe he will save your life.” 
1KI  20\v 31 His servants said to him, “See now, we have heard that the kings of the house of Israel are merciful kings. Please let us put sackcloth on our bodies and ropes on our heads, and go out to the king of Israel. Maybe he will save your life.” 
1KI  20\v 33 Now the men observed diligently, and hurried to take this phrase; and they said, “Your brother Ben Hadad.” 
1KI  20\v 33 Now the men observed diligently and hurried to take this phrase; and they said, “Your brother Ben Hadad.” 
1KI  20\v 39 As the king passed by, he cried to the king; and he said, “Your servant went out into the middle of the battle; and behold, a man came over, and brought a man to me, and said, ‘Guard this man! If by any means he is missing, then your life shall be for his life, or else you shall pay a talent\f + \fr 20:39  \ft A talent is about 30 kilograms or 66 pounds\f* of silver.’ 
1KI  20\v 39 As the king passed by, he cried to the king, and he said, “Your servant went out into the middle of the battle; and behold, a man came over and brought a man to me, and said, ‘Guard this man! If by any means he is missing, then your life shall be for his life, or else you shall pay a talent\f + \fr 20:39  \ft A talent is about 30 kilograms or 66 pounds\f* of silver.’ 
1KI  21\v 1 After these things, Naboth the Jezreelite had a vineyard, which was in Jezreel, next to the palace of Ahab king of Samaria. 
1KI  21\v 1 After these things, Naboth the Jezreelite had a vineyard which was in Jezreel, next to the palace of Ahab king of Samaria. 
1KI  21\v 5 But Jezebel his wife came to him, and said to him, “Why is your spirit so sad, that you eat no bread?” 
1KI  21\v 5 But Jezebel his wife came to him, and said to him, “Why is your spirit so sad that you eat no bread?” 
1KI  21\v 15 When Jezebel heard that Naboth had been stoned, and was dead, Jezebel said to Ahab, “Arise, take possession of the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite, which he refused to give you for money; for Naboth is not alive, but dead.” 
1KI  21\v 15 When Jezebel heard that Naboth had been stoned and was dead, Jezebel said to Ahab, “Arise, take possession of the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite, which he refused to give you for money; for Naboth is not alive, but dead.” 
1KI  21\v 27 When Ahab heard those words, he tore his clothes, and put sackcloth on his flesh, and fasted, and lay in sackcloth, and went softly. 
1KI  21\v 27 When Ahab heard those words, he tore his clothes, put sackcloth on his body, fasted, lay in sackcloth, and went about despondently. 
1KI  22\v 25 Micaiah said, “Behold, you will see on that day, when you go into an inner room to hide yourself.” 
1KI  22\v 25 Micaiah said, “Behold, you will see on that day when you go into an inner room to hide yourself.” 
1KI  22\v 43 He walked in all the way of Asa his father. He didn’t turn away from it, doing that which was right in Yahweh’s eyes. However the high places were not taken away. The people still sacrificed and burned incense on the high places. 
1KI  22\v 43 He walked in all the way of Asa his father. He didn’t turn away from it, doing that which was right in Yahweh’s eyes. However, the high places were not taken away. The people still sacrificed and burned incense on the high places. 
2KI   1\v 3 But Yahweh’s\f + \fr 1:3  \ft “Yahweh” is God’s proper Name, sometimes rendered “LORD” (all caps) in other translations.\f* angel said to Elijah the Tishbite, “Arise, go up to meet the messengers of the king of Samaria, and tell them, ‘Is it because there is no God\f + \fr 1:3  \ft The Hebrew word rendered “God” is “אֱלֹהִ֑ים” (Elohim).\f* in Israel, that you go to inquire of Baal Zebub, the god of Ekron? 
2KI   1\v 3 But Yahweh’s\f + \fr 1:3  \ft “Yahweh” is God’s proper Name, sometimes rendered “LORD” (all caps) in other translations.\f* angel said to Elijah the Tishbite, “Arise, go up to meet the messengers of the king of Samaria, and tell them, ‘Is it because there is no God\f + \fr 1:3  \ft The Hebrew word rendered “God” is “אֱלֹהִ֑ים” (Elohim).\f* in Israel that you go to inquire of Baal Zebub, the god of Ekron? 
2KI   1\v 7 He said to them, “What kind of man was he who came up to meet you, and told you these words?” 
2KI   1\v 7 He said to them, “What kind of man was he who came up to meet you and told you these words?” 
2KI   1\v 13 Again he sent the captain of a third fifty with his fifty. The third captain of fifty went up, and came and fell on his knees before Elijah, and begged him, and said to him, “Man of God, please let my life, and the life of these fifty of your servants, be precious in your sight. 
2KI   1\v 13 Again he sent the captain of a third fifty with his fifty. The third captain of fifty went up, and came and fell on his knees before Elijah, and begged him, and said to him, “Man of God, please let my life and the life of these fifty of your servants be precious in your sight. 
2KI   2\v 3 The sons of the prophets who were at Bethel came out to Elisha, and said to him, “Do you know that Yahweh will take away your master from your head today?” 
2KI   2\v 3 The sons of the prophets who were at Bethel came out to Elisha, and said to him, “Do you know that Yahweh will take away your master from over you today?” 
2KI   2\v 5 The sons of the prophets who were at Jericho came near to Elisha, and said to him, “Do you know that Yahweh will take away your master from your head today?” 
2KI   2\v 5 The sons of the prophets who were at Jericho came near to Elisha, and said to him, “Do you know that Yahweh will take away your master from over you today?” 
2KI   2\v 7 Fifty men of the sons of the prophets went, and stood opposite them at a distance; and they both stood by the Jordan. 
2KI   2\v 7 Fifty men of the sons of the prophets went and stood opposite them at a distance; and they both stood by the Jordan. 
2KI   2\v 11 As they continued on and talked, behold, a chariot of fire and horses of fire separated them, and Elijah went up by a whirlwind into heaven. 
2KI   2\v 11 As they continued on and talked, behold, a chariot of fire and horses of fire separated them; and Elijah went up by a whirlwind into heaven. 
2KI   2\v 13 He also took up Elijah’s mantle that fell from him, and went back, and stood by the bank of the Jordan. 
2KI   2\v 13 He also took up Elijah’s mantle that fell from him, and went back and stood by the bank of the Jordan. 
2KI   3\v 19 You shall strike every fortified city, and every choice city, and shall fell every good tree, and stop all springs of water, and mar every good piece of land with stones.’” 
2KI   3\v 19 You shall strike every fortified city and every choice city, and shall fell every good tree, and stop all springs of water, and mar every good piece of land with stones.’” 
2KI   3\v 25 They beat down the cities; and on every good piece of land each man cast his stone, and filled it. They also stopped all the springs of water, and cut down all the good trees, until in Kir Hareseth all they left was its stones; however the men armed with slings went around it, and attacked it. 
2KI   3\v 25 They beat down the cities; and on every good piece of land each man cast his stone, and filled it. They also stopped all the springs of water and cut down all the good trees, until in Kir Hareseth all they left was its stones; however the men armed with slings went around it and attacked it. 
2KI   4\v 17 The woman conceived, and bore a son at that season, when the time came around, as Elisha had said to her. 
2KI   4\v 17 The woman conceived, and bore a son at that season when the time came around, as Elisha had said to her. 
2KI   4\v 27 When she came to the man of God to the hill, she caught hold of his feet. Gehazi came near to thrust her away; but the man of God said, “Leave her alone; for her soul is troubled within her; and Yahweh has hidden it from me, and has not told me.” 
2KI   4\v 27 When she came to the man of God to the hill, she caught hold of his feet. Gehazi came near to thrust her away; but the man of God said, “Leave her alone, for her soul is troubled within her; and Yahweh has hidden it from me, and has not told me.” 
2KI   4\v 35 Then he returned, and walked in the house once back and forth; and went up, and stretched himself out on him. Then the child sneezed seven times, and the child opened his eyes. 
2KI   4\v 35 Then he returned, and walked in the house once back and forth, then went up and stretched himself out on him. Then the child sneezed seven times, and the child opened his eyes. 
2KI   5\v 1 Now Naaman, captain of the army of the king of Syria, was a great man with his master, and honorable, because by him Yahweh had given victory to Syria: he was also a mighty man of valor, but he was a leper. 
2KI   5\v 1 Now Naaman, captain of the army of the king of Syria, was a great man with his master, and honorable, because by him Yahweh had given victory to Syria; he was also a mighty man of valor, but he was a leper. 
2KI   5\v 7 When the king of Israel had read the letter, he tore his clothes, and said, “Am I God, to kill and to make alive, that this man sends to me to heal a man of his leprosy? But please consider and see how he seeks a quarrel against me.” 
2KI   5\v 7 When the king of Israel had read the letter, he tore his clothes and said, “Am I God, to kill and to make alive, that this man sends to me to heal a man of his leprosy? But please consider and see how he seeks a quarrel against me.” 
2KI   5\v 11 But Naaman was angry, and went away, and said, “Behold, I thought, ‘He will surely come out to me, and stand, and call on the name of Yahweh his God, and wave his hand over the place, and heal the leper.’ 
2KI   5\v 11 But Naaman was angry, and went away and said, “Behold, I thought, ‘He will surely come out to me, and stand, and call on the name of Yahweh his God, and wave his hand over the place, and heal the leper.’ 
2KI   5\v 13 His servants came near, and spoke to him, and said, “My father, if the prophet had asked you do some great thing, wouldn’t you have done it? How much rather then, when he says to you, ‘Wash, and be clean?’” 
2KI   5\v 13 His servants came near and spoke to him, and said, “My father, if the prophet had asked you do some great thing, wouldn’t you have done it? How much rather then, when he says to you, ‘Wash, and be clean?’” 
2KI   5\v 17 Naaman said, “If not, then, please let two mules’ burden of earth be given to your servant; for your servant will from now on offer neither burnt offering nor sacrifice to other gods, but to Yahweh. 
2KI   5\v 17 Naaman said, “If not, then, please let two mules’ load of earth be given to your servant; for your servant will from now on offer neither burnt offering nor sacrifice to other gods, but to Yahweh. 
2KI   6\v 5 But as one was cutting down a tree, the ax head fell into the water. Then he cried, and said, “Alas, my master! For it was borrowed.” 
2KI   6\v 5 But as one was cutting down a tree, the ax head fell into the water. Then he cried out and said, “Alas, my master! For it was borrowed.” 
2KI   6\v 9 The man of God sent to the king of Israel, saying, “Beware that you not pass this place; for the Syrians are coming down there.” 
2KI   6\v 9 The man of God sent to the king of Israel, saying, “Beware that you not pass this place, for the Syrians are coming down there.” 
2KI   6\v 15 When the servant of the man of God had risen early, and gone out, behold, an army with horses and chariots was around the city. His servant said to him, “Alas, my master! What shall we do?” 
2KI   6\v 15 When the servant of the man of God had risen early and gone out, behold, an army with horses and chariots was around the city. His servant said to him, “Alas, my master! What shall we do?” 
2KI   6\v 17 Elisha prayed, and said, “Yahweh, please open his eyes, that he may see.” Yahweh opened the young man’s eyes; and he saw: and behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire around Elisha. 
2KI   6\v 17 Elisha prayed, and said, “Yahweh, please open his eyes, that he may see.” Yahweh opened the young man’s eyes, and he saw; and behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire around Elisha. 
2KI   6\v 23 He prepared a great feast for them. When they had eaten and drunk, he sent them away, and they went to their master. So the bands of Syria stopped raiding the land of Israel. 
2KI   6\v 23 He prepared a great feast for them. After they ate and drank, he sent them away and they went to their master. So the bands of Syria stopped raiding the land of Israel. 
2KI   6\v 25 There was a great famine in Samaria. Behold, they besieged it, until a donkey’s head was sold for eighty pieces of silver, and the fourth part of a kab\f + \fr 6:25  \ft A kab was about 2 liters, so a fourth of a kab would be about 500 milliliters or about a pint\f* of dove’s dung for five pieces of silver. 
2KI   6\v 25 There was a great famine in Samaria. Behold, they besieged it until a donkey’s head was sold for eighty pieces of silver, and the fourth part of a kab\f + \fr 6:25  \ft A kab was about 2 liters, so a fourth of a kab would be about 500 milliliters or about a pint\f* of dove’s dung for five pieces of silver. 
2KI   6\v 29 So we boiled my son, and ate him: and I said to her on the next day, ‘Give your son, that we may eat him;’ and she has hidden her son.” 
2KI   6\v 29 So we boiled my son and ate him; and I said to her on the next day, ‘Give up your son, that we may eat him;’ and she has hidden her son.” 
2KI   7\v 5 They rose up in the twilight, to go to the camp of the Syrians. When they had come to the outermost part of the camp of the Syrians, behold, no man was there. 
2KI   7\v 5 They rose up in the twilight to go to the camp of the Syrians. When they had come to the outermost part of the camp of the Syrians, behold, no man was there. 
2KI   7\v 7 Therefore they arose and fled in the twilight, and left their tents, and their horses, and their donkeys, even the camp as it was, and fled for their life. 
2KI   7\v 7 Therefore they arose and fled in the twilight, and left their tents, their horses, and their donkeys, even the camp as it was, and fled for their life. 
2KI   7\v 11 He called the gatekeepers; and they told it to the king’s household within. 
2KI   7\v 11 Then the gatekeepers called out and told it to the king’s household within. 
2KI   7\v 15 They went after them to the Jordan; and behold, all the path was full of garments and equipment which the Syrians had cast away in their haste. The messengers returned, and told the king. 
2KI   7\v 15 They went after them to the Jordan; and behold, all the path was full of garments and equipment which the Syrians had cast away in their haste. The messengers returned and told the king. 
2KI   7\v 17 The king appointed the captain on whose hand he leaned to be in charge of the gate; and the people trampled over him in the gate, and he died as the man of God had said, who spoke when the king came down to him. 
2KI   7\v 17 The king had appointed the captain on whose hand he leaned to be in charge of the gate; and the people trampled over him in the gate, and he died as the man of God had said, who spoke when the king came down to him. 
2KI   8\v 5 As he was telling the king how he had restored to life him who was dead, behold, the woman, whose son he had restored to life, begged the king for her house and for her land. Gehazi said, “My lord, O king, this is the woman, and this is her son, whom Elisha restored to life.” 
2KI   8\v 5 As he was telling the king how he had restored to life him who was dead, behold, the woman whose son he had restored to life begged the king for her house and for her land. Gehazi said, “My lord, O king, this is the woman, and this is her son, whom Elisha restored to life.” 
2KI   8\v 9 So Hazael went to meet him, and took a present with him, even of every good thing of Damascus, forty camels’ burden, and came and stood before him, and said, “Your son Benhadad king of Syria has sent me to you, saying, ‘Will I recover from this sickness?’” 
2KI   8\v 9 So Hazael went to meet him and took a present with him, even of every good thing of Damascus, forty camels’ burden, and came and stood before him and said, “Your son Benhadad king of Syria has sent me to you, saying, ‘Will I recover from this sickness?’” 
2KI   8\v 15 On the next day, he took a thick cloth, dipped it in water, and spread it on his face, so that he died. Then Hazael reigned in his place. 
2KI   8\v 15 On the next day, he took a thick cloth, dipped it in water, and spread it on the king’s face, so that he died. Then Hazael reigned in his place. 
2KI   8\v 19 However Yahweh would not destroy Judah, for David his servant’s sake, as he promised him to give to him a lamp for his children always. 
2KI   8\v 19 However, Yahweh would not destroy Judah, for David his servant’s sake, as he promised him to give to him a lamp for his children always. 
2KI   8\v 21 Then Joram passed over to Zair, and all his chariots with him: and he rose up by night, and struck the Edomites who surrounded him, and the captains of the chariots; and the people fled to their tents. 
2KI   8\v 21 Then Joram crossed over to Zair, and all his chariots with him; and he rose up by night and struck the Edomites who surrounded him with the captains of the chariots; and the people fled to their tents. 
2KI   8\v 27 He walked in the way of Ahab’s house, and did that which was evil in Yahweh’s sight, as did Ahab’s house; for he was the son-in-law of Ahab’s house. 
2KI   8\v 27 He walked in the way of Ahab’s house and did that which was evil in Yahweh’s sight, as did Ahab’s house, for he was the son-in-law of Ahab’s house. 
2KI   9\v 29 King Joram returned to be healed in Jezreel from the wounds which the Syrians had given him at Ramah, when he fought against Hazael king of Syria. Ahaziah the son of Jehoram king of Judah went down to see Joram the son of Ahab in Jezreel, because he was sick. 
2KI   9\v 29 King Joram returned to be healed in Jezreel from the wounds which the Syrians had given him at Ramah, when he fought against Hazael king of Syria. Ahaziah the son of Jehoram, king of Judah, went down to see Joram the son of Ahab in Jezreel, because he was sick. 
2KI   9\v 11 When Jehu came out to the servants of his lord, and one said to him, “Is all well? Why did this mad fellow come to you?” 
2KI   9\v 11 When Jehu came out to the servants of his lord and one said to him, “Is all well? Why did this madman come to you?” 
2KI   9\v 15 but king Joram had returned to be healed in Jezreel of the wounds which the Syrians had given him, when he fought with Hazael king of Syria.) Jehu said, “If this is your thinking, then let no one escape and go out of the city, to go to tell it in Jezreel.” 
2KI   9\v 15 but king Joram had returned to be healed in Jezreel of the wounds which the Syrians had given him when he fought with Hazael king of Syria.) Jehu said, “If this is your thinking, then let no one escape and go out of the city to go to tell it in Jezreel.” 
2KI   9\v 19 Then he sent out a second on horseback, who came to them, and said, “The king says, ‘Is it peace?’” 
2KI   9\v 19 Then he sent out a second on horseback, who came to them and said, “The king says, ‘Is it peace?’” 
2KI   9\v 23 Joram turned his hands, and fled, and said to Ahaziah, “This is treason, Ahaziah!” 
2KI   9\v 23 Joram turned his hands and fled, and said to Ahaziah, “This is treason, Ahaziah!” 
2KI  10\v 37 and the body of Jezebel will be as dung on the face of the field on Jezreel’s land, so that they won’t say, “This is Jezebel.”’” 
2KI  10\v 37 and the body of Jezebel will be as dung on the surface of the field on Jezreel’s land, so that they won’t say, “This is Jezebel.”’” 
2KI  10\v 1 Now Ahab had seventy sons in Samaria. Jehu wrote letters, and sent to Samaria, to the rulers of Jezreel, even the elders, and to those who brought up Ahab’s sons, saying, 
2KI  10\v 1 Now Ahab had seventy sons in Samaria. Jehu wrote letters and sent them to Samaria, to the rulers of Jezreel, even the elders, and to those who brought up Ahab’s sons, saying, 
2KI  10\v 3 Select the best and fittest of your master’s sons, set him on his father’s throne, and fight for your master’s house.” 
2KI  10\v 3 select the best and fittest of your master’s sons, set him on his father’s throne, and fight for your master’s house.” 
2KI  10\v 9 In the morning, he went out, and stood, and said to all the people, “You are righteous. Behold, I conspired against my master and killed him, but who killed all these? 
2KI  10\v 9 In the morning, he went out and stood, and said to all the people, “You are righteous. Behold, I conspired against my master and killed him, but who killed all these? 
2KI  10\v 17 When he came to Samaria, he struck all who remained to Ahab in Samaria, until he had destroyed him, according to Yahweh’s word, which he spoke to Elijah. 
2KI  10\v 17 When he came to Samaria, he struck all who remained to Ahab in Samaria, until he had destroyed them, according to Yahweh’s word which he spoke to Elijah. 
2KI  10\v 19 Now therefore call to me all the prophets of Baal, all of his worshipers, and all of his priests. Let no one be absent; for I have a great sacrifice to Baal. Whoever is absent, he shall not live.” But Jehu did deceptively, intending to destroy the worshipers of Baal. 
2KI  10\v 19 Now therefore call to me all the prophets of Baal, all of his worshipers, and all of his priests. Let no one be absent, for I have a great sacrifice to Baal. Whoever is absent, he shall not live.” But Jehu did deceptively, intending to destroy the worshipers of Baal. 
2KI  10\v 29 However, Jehu didn’t depart from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, with which he made Israel to sin, the golden calves that were in Bethel and that were in Dan. 
2KI  10\v 29 However, Jehu didn’t depart from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, with which he made Israel to sin—the golden calves that were in Bethel and that were in Dan. 
2KI  11\v 9 The captains over hundreds did according to all that Jehoiada the priest commanded; and they each took his men, those who were to come in on the Sabbath, with those who were to go out on the Sabbath, and came to Jehoiada the priest. 
2KI  11\v 9 The captains over hundreds did according to all that Jehoiada the priest commanded; and they each took his men, those who were to come in on the Sabbath with those who were to go out on the Sabbath, and came to Jehoiada the priest. 
2KI  11\v 13 When Athaliah heard the noise of the guard and of the people, she came to the people into Yahweh’s house: 
2KI  11\v 13 When Athaliah heard the noise of the guard and of the people, she came to the people into Yahweh’s house; 
2KI  12\v 3 However the high places were not taken away. The people still sacrificed and burned incense in the high places. 
2KI  12\v 3 However, the high places were not taken away. The people still sacrificed and burned incense in the high places. 
2KI  12\v 7 Then king Jehoash called for Jehoiada the priest, and for the other priests, and said to them, “Why don’t you repair the damage to the house? Now therefore take no more money from your treasurers, but deliver it for repair of the damage to the house.” 
2KI  12\v 7 Then King Jehoash called for Jehoiada the priest, and for the other priests, and said to them, “Why aren’t you repairing the damage to the house? Now therefore take no more money from your treasurers, but deliver it for repair of the damage to the house.” 
2KI  12\v 9 But Jehoiada the priest took a chest, and bored a hole in its lid, and set it beside the altar, on the right side as one comes into Yahweh’s house; and the priests who kept the threshold put all the money that was brought into Yahweh’s house into it. 
2KI  12\v 9 But Jehoiada the priest took a chest and bored a hole in its lid, and set it beside the altar, on the right side as one comes into Yahweh’s house; and the priests who kept the threshold put all the money that was brought into Yahweh’s house into it. 
2KI  12\v 11 They gave the money that was weighed out into the hands of those who did the work, who had the oversight of Yahweh’s house; and they paid it out to the carpenters and the builders, who worked on Yahweh’s house, 
2KI  12\v 11 They gave the money that was weighed out into the hands of those who did the work, who had the oversight of Yahweh’s house; and they paid it out to the carpenters and the builders who worked on Yahweh’s house, 
2KI  12\v 13 But there were not made for Yahweh’s house cups of silver, snuffers, basins, trumpets, any vessels of gold, or vessels of silver, of the money that was brought into Yahweh’s house; 
2KI  12\v 13 But there were not made for Yahweh’s house cups of silver, snuffers, basins, trumpets, any vessels of gold or vessels of silver, of the money that was brought into Yahweh’s house; 
2KI  12\v 17 Then Hazael king of Syria went up, and fought against Gath, and took it; and Hazael set his face to go up to Jerusalem. 
2KI  12\v 17 Then Hazael king of Syria went up and fought against Gath, and took it; and Hazael set his face to go up to Jerusalem. 
2KI  13\v 7 For he didn’t leave to Jehoahaz of the people any more than fifty horsemen, and ten chariots, and ten thousand footmen; for the king of Syria destroyed them, and made them like the dust in threshing. 
2KI  13\v 7 For he didn’t leave to Jehoahaz of the people any more than fifty horsemen, and ten chariots, and ten thousand footmen; for the king of Syria destroyed them and made them like the dust in threshing. 
2KI  13\v 17 He said, “Open the window eastward;” and he opened it. Then Elisha said, “Shoot!” and he shot. He said, “Yahweh’s arrow of victory, even the arrow of victory over Syria; for you will strike the Syrians in Aphek, until you have consumed them.” 
2KI  13\v 17 He said, “Open the window eastward;” and he opened it. Then Elisha said, “Shoot!” and he shot. He said, “Yahweh’s arrow of victory, even the arrow of victory over Syria; for you will strike the Syrians in Aphek until you have consumed them.” 
2KI  13\v 19 The man of God was angry with him, and said, “You should have struck five or six times. Then you would have struck Syria until you had consumed it; whereas now you will strike Syria just three times.” 
2KI  13\v 19 The man of God was angry with him, and said, “You should have struck five or six times. Then you would have struck Syria until you had consumed it, but now you will strike Syria just three times.” 
2KI  13\v 23 But Yahweh was gracious to them, and had compassion on them, and had respect for them, because of his covenant with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and would not destroy them, and he didn’t cast them from his presence as yet. 
2KI  13\v 23 But Yahweh was gracious to them, and had compassion on them, and favored them because of his covenant with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and would not destroy them and he didn’t cast them from his presence as yet. 
2KI  14\v 1 In the second year of Joash son of Joahaz king of Israel, Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah began to reign. 
2KI  14\v 1 In the second year of Joash, son of Joahaz, king of Israel, Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah began to reign. 
2KI  14\v 9 Jehoash the king of Israel sent to Amaziah king of Judah, saying, “The thistle that was in Lebanon sent to the cedar that was in Lebanon, saying, ‘Give your daughter to my son as wife. Then a wild animal that was in Lebanon passed by, and trampled down the thistle. 
2KI  14\v 9 Jehoash the king of Israel sent to Amaziah king of Judah, saying, “The thistle that was in Lebanon sent to the cedar that was in Lebanon, saying, ‘Give your daughter to my son as wife.’ Then a wild animal that was in Lebanon passed by, and trampled down the thistle. 
2KI  14\v 13 Jehoash king of Israel took Amaziah king of Judah, the son of Jehoash the son of Ahaziah, at Beth Shemesh, and came to Jerusalem, and broke down the wall of Jerusalem from the gate of Ephraim to the corner gate, four hundred cubits.\f + \fr 14:13  \ft A cubit is the length from the tip of the middle finger to the elbow on a man’s arm, or about 18 inches or 46 centimeters.\f* 
2KI  14\v 13 Jehoash king of Israel took Amaziah king of Judah, the son of Jehoash the son of Ahaziah, at Beth Shemesh and came to Jerusalem, then broke down the wall of Jerusalem from the gate of Ephraim to the corner gate, four hundred cubits.\f + \fr 14:13  \ft A cubit is the length from the tip of the middle finger to the elbow on a man’s arm, or about 18 inches or 46 centimeters.\f* 
2KI  14\v 17 Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah lived after the death of Jehoash son of Jehoahaz king of Israel fifteen years. 
2KI  14\v 17 Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah lived after the death of Jehoash son of Jehoahaz, king of Israel, fifteen years. 
2KI  14\v 19 They made a conspiracy against him in Jerusalem, and he fled to Lachish; but they sent after him to Lachish, and killed him there. 
2KI  14\v 19 They made a conspiracy against him in Jerusalem, and he fled to Lachish; but they sent after him to Lachish and killed him there. 
2KI  15\v 7 Azariah slept with his fathers; and they buried him with his fathers in David’s city: and Jotham his son reigned in his place. 
2KI  15\v 7 Azariah slept with his fathers; and they buried him with his fathers in David’s city; and Jotham his son reigned in his place. 
2KI  16\v 3 But he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, yes, and made his son to pass through the fire, according to the abominations of the nations whom Yahweh cast out from before the children of Israel. 
2KI  16\v 3 But he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, and even made his son to pass through the fire, according to the abominations of the nations whom Yahweh cast out from before the children of Israel. 
2KI  16\v 7 So Ahaz sent messengers to Tiglath Pileser king of Assyria, saying, “I am your servant and your son. Come up and save me out of the hand of the king of Syria, and out of the hand of the king of Israel, who rise up against me.” 
2KI  16\v 7 So Ahaz sent messengers to Tiglath Pileser king of Assyria, saying, “I am your servant and your son. Come up and save me out of the hand of the king of Syria and out of the hand of the king of Israel, who rise up against me.” 
2KI  16\v 9 The king of Assyria listened to him; and the king of Assyria went up against Damascus, and took it, and carried its people captive to Kir, and killed Rezin. 
2KI  16\v 9 The king of Assyria listened to him; and the king of Assyria went up against Damascus and took it, and carried its people captive to Kir, and killed Rezin. 
2KI  16\v 15 King Ahaz commanded Urijah the priest, saying, “On the great altar burn the morning burnt offering, the evening meal offering, the king’s burnt offering, his meal offering, with the burnt offering of all the people of the land, their meal offering, and their drink offerings; and sprinkle on it all the blood of the burnt offering, and all the blood of the sacrifice; but the bronze altar will be for me to inquire by.” 
2KI  16\v 15 King Ahaz commanded Urijah the priest, saying, “On the great altar burn the morning burnt offering, the evening meal offering, the king’s burnt offering and his meal offering, with the burnt offering of all the people of the land, their meal offering, and their drink offerings; and sprinkle on it all the blood of the burnt offering, and all the blood of the sacrifice; but the bronze altar will be for me to inquire by.” 
2KI  17\v 3 Shalmaneser king of Assyria came up against him, and Hoshea became his servant, and brought him tribute. 
2KI  17\v 3 Shalmaneser king of Assyria came up against him; and Hoshea became his servant, and brought him tribute. 
2KI  17\v 13 Yet Yahweh testified to Israel, and to Judah, by every prophet, and every seer, saying, “Turn from your evil ways, and keep my commandments and my statutes, according to all the law which I commanded your fathers, and which I sent to you by my servants the prophets.” 
2KI  17\v 13 Yet Yahweh testified to Israel and to Judah, by every prophet and every seer, saying, “Turn from your evil ways, and keep my commandments and my statutes, according to all the law which I commanded your fathers, and which I sent to you by my servants the prophets.” 
2KI  17\v 15 They rejected his statutes, and his covenant that he made with their fathers, and his testimonies which he testified to them; and they followed vanity, and became vain, and followed the nations that were around them, concerning whom Yahweh had commanded them that they should not do like them. 
2KI  17\v 15 They rejected his statutes and his covenant that he made with their fathers, and his testimonies which he testified to them; and they followed vanity, and became vain, and followed the nations that were around them, concerning whom Yahweh had commanded them that they should not do like them. 
2KI  17\v 27 Then the king of Assyria commanded, saying, “Carry there one of the priests whom you brought from there; and let them go and dwell there, and let him teach them the law of the god of the land.” 
2KI  17\v 27 Then the king of Assyria commanded, saying, “Carry there one of the priests whom you brought from there; and let him\f + \fr 17:27  \ft Hebrew: \fq them\f* go and dwell there, and let him teach them the law of the god of the land.” 
2KI  17\v 35 with whom Yahweh had made a covenant, and commanded them, saying, “You shall not fear other gods, nor bow yourselves to them, nor serve them, nor sacrifice to them; 
2KI  17\v 35 with whom Yahweh had made a covenant and commanded them, saying, “You shall not fear other gods, nor bow yourselves to them, nor serve them, nor sacrifice to them; 
2KI  17\v 37 The statutes and the ordinances, and the law and the commandment, which he wrote for you, you shall observe to do forever more. You shall not fear other gods. 
2KI  17\v 37 The statutes and the ordinances, and the law and the commandment which he wrote for you, you shall observe to do forever more. You shall not fear other gods. 
2KI  18\v 5 He trusted in Yahweh, the God of Israel; so that after him was no one like him among all the kings of Judah, nor among them that were before him. 
2KI  18\v 5 He trusted in Yahweh, the God of Israel, so that after him was no one like him among all the kings of Judah, nor among them that were before him. 
2KI  18\v 9 In the fourth year of king Hezekiah, which was the seventh year of Hoshea son of Elah king of Israel, Shalmaneser king of Assyria came up against Samaria, and besieged it. 
2KI  18\v 9 In the fourth year of king Hezekiah, which was the seventh year of Hoshea son of Elah king of Israel, Shalmaneser king of Assyria came up against Samaria and besieged it. 
2KI  18\v 13 Now in the fourteenth year of king Hezekiah, Sennacherib king of Assyria came up against all the fortified cities of Judah, and took them. 
2KI  18\v 13 Now in the fourteenth year of king Hezekiah, Sennacherib king of Assyria came up against all the fortified cities of Judah and took them. 
2KI  18\v 15 Hezekiah gave him all the silver that was found in Yahweh’s house, and in the treasures of the king’s house. 
2KI  18\v 15 Hezekiah gave him all the silver that was found in Yahweh’s house and in the treasures of the king’s house. 
2KI  18\v 17 The king of Assyria sent Tartan and Rabsaris and Rabshakeh from Lachish to king Hezekiah with a great army to Jerusalem. They went up and came to Jerusalem. When they had come up, they came and stood by the conduit of the upper pool, which is in the highway of the fuller’s field. 
2KI  18\v 17 The king of Assyria sent Tartan, Rabsaris, and Rabshakeh from Lachish to king Hezekiah with a great army to Jerusalem. They went up and came to Jerusalem. When they had come up, they came and stood by the conduit of the upper pool, which is in the highway of the fuller’s field. 
2KI  18\v 21 Now, behold, you trust in the staff of this bruised reed, even in Egypt. If a man leans on it, it will go into his hand, and pierce it. So is Pharaoh king of Egypt to all who trust on him. 
2KI  18\v 21 Now, behold, you trust in the staff of this bruised reed, even in Egypt. If a man leans on it, it will go into his hand and pierce it. So is Pharaoh king of Egypt to all who trust on him. 
2KI  18\v 23 Now therefore, please give pledges to my master the king of Assyria, and I will give you two thousand horses, if you are able on your part to set riders on them. 
2KI  18\v 23 Now therefore, please give pledges to my master the king of Assyria, and I will give you two thousand horses if you are able on your part to set riders on them. 
2KI  18\v 29 The king says, ‘Don’t let Hezekiah deceive you; for he will not be able to deliver you out of his hand. 
2KI  18\v 29 The king says, ‘Don’t let Hezekiah deceive you, for he will not be able to deliver you out of his hand. 
2KI  19\v 37 Then Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, came with Shebna the scribe, and Joah the son of Asaph the recorder, to Hezekiah with their clothes torn, and told him Rabshakeh’s words. 
2KI  19\v 37 Then Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, came with Shebna the scribe and Joah the son of Asaph the recorder to Hezekiah with their clothes torn, and told him Rabshakeh’s words. 
2KI  19\v 9 When he heard it said of Tirhakah king of Ethiopia, “Behold, he has come out to fight against you, he sent messengers again to Hezekiah, saying, 
2KI  19\v 9 When he heard it said of Tirhakah king of Ethiopia, “Behold, he has come out to fight against you,” he sent messengers again to Hezekiah, saying, 
2KI  19\v 13 Where is the king of Hamath, the king of Arpad, and the king of the city of Sepharvaim, of Hena, and Ivvah?”’” 
2KI  19\v 13 Where is the king of Hamath, the king of Arpad, and the king of the city of Sepharvaim, of Hena, and Ivvah?’” 
2KI  19\v 29 “This will be the sign to you: This year, you will eat that which grows of itself, and in the second year that which springs from that; and in the third year sow, and reap, and plant vineyards, and eat its fruit. 
2KI  19\v 29 “This will be the sign to you: This year, you will eat that which grows of itself, and in the second year that which springs from that; and in the third year sow and reap, and plant vineyards and eat their fruit. 
2KI  19\v 35 That night, Yahweh’s angel went out, and struck one hundred eighty-five thousand in the camp of the Assyrians. When men arose early in the morning, behold, these were all dead bodies. 
2KI  19\v 35 That night, Yahweh’s angel went out and struck one hundred eighty-five thousand in the camp of the Assyrians. When men arose early in the morning, behold, these were all dead bodies. 
2KI  20\v 13 Hezekiah listened to them, and showed them all the storehouse of his precious things, the silver, the gold, the spices, and the precious oil, and the house of his armor, and all that was found in his treasures. There was nothing in his house, or in all his dominion, that Hezekiah didn’t show them. 
2KI  20\v 13 Hezekiah listened to them, and showed them all the storehouse of his precious things—the silver, the gold, the spices, and the precious oil, and the house of his armor, and all that was found in his treasures. There was nothing in his house, or in all his dominion, that Hezekiah didn’t show them. 
2KI  21\v 13 I will stretch over Jerusalem the line of Samaria, and the plummet of Ahab’s house; and I will wipe Jerusalem as a man wipes a dish, wiping it and turning it upside down. 
2KI  21\v 13 I will stretch over Jerusalem the line of Samaria, and the plumb line of Ahab’s house; and I will wipe Jerusalem as a man wipes a dish, wiping it and turning it upside down. 
2KI  21\v 15 because they have done that which is evil in my sight, and have provoked me to anger, since the day their fathers came out of Egypt, even to this day.’” 
2KI  21\v 15 because they have done that which is evil in my sight, and have provoked me to anger since the day their fathers came out of Egypt, even to this day.’” 
2KI  22\v 5 Let them deliver it into the hand of the workmen who have the oversight of Yahweh’s house; and let them give it to the workmen who are in Yahweh’s house, to repair the damage to the house, 
2KI  22\v 5 Let them deliver it into the hand of the workers who have the oversight of Yahweh’s house; and let them give it to the workers who are in Yahweh’s house, to repair the damage to the house, 
2KI  22\v 7 However no accounting shall be made with them of the money delivered into their hand; for they deal faithfully.” 
2KI  22\v 7 However, no accounting shall be asked of them for the money delivered into their hand, for they deal faithfully.” 
2KI  22\v 17 Because they have forsaken me, and have burned incense to other gods, that they might provoke me to anger with all the work of their hands, therefore my wrath shall be kindled against this place, and it will not be quenched.’” 
2KI  22\v 17 Because they have forsaken me and have burned incense to other gods, that they might provoke me to anger with all the work of their hands, therefore my wrath shall be kindled against this place, and it will not be quenched.’” 
2KI  22\v 19 because your heart was tender, and you humbled yourself before Yahweh, when you heard what I spoke against this place, and against its inhabitants, that they should become a desolation and a curse, and have torn your clothes, and wept before me; I also have heard you,’ says Yahweh. 
2KI  22\v 19 because your heart was tender, and you humbled yourself before Yahweh when you heard what I spoke against this place and against its inhabitants, that they should become a desolation and a curse, and have torn your clothes and wept before me, I also have heard you,’ says Yahweh. 
2KI  23\v 3 The king stood by the pillar, and made a covenant before Yahweh, to walk after Yahweh, and to keep his commandments, his testimonies, and his statutes, with all his heart, and all his soul, to confirm the words of this covenant that were written in this book; and all the people agreed to the covenant. 
2KI  23\v 3 The king stood by the pillar and made a covenant before Yahweh to walk after Yahweh and to keep his commandments, his testimonies, and his statutes with all his heart and all his soul, to confirm the words of this covenant that were written in this book; and all the people agreed to the covenant. 
2KI  23\v 5 He got rid of the idolatrous priests, whom the kings of Judah had ordained to burn incense in the high places in the cities of Judah, and in the places around Jerusalem; those also who burned incense to Baal, to the sun, and to the moon, and to the planets, and to all the army of the sky. 
2KI  23\v 5 He got rid of the idolatrous priests whom the kings of Judah had ordained to burn incense in the high places in the cities of Judah and in the places around Jerusalem; those also who burned incense to Baal, to the sun, to the moon, to the planets, and to all the army of the sky. 
2KI  23\v 11 He took away the horses that the kings of Judah had given to the sun, at the entrance of Yahweh’s house, by the room of Nathan Melech the officer, who was in the court; and he burned the chariots of the sun with fire. 
2KI  23\v 11 He took away the horses that the kings of Judah had dedicated to the sun, at the entrance of Yahweh’s house, by the room of Nathan Melech the officer who was in the court; and he burned the chariots of the sun with fire. 
2KI  23\v 15 Moreover the altar that was at Bethel, and the high place which Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin, had made, even that altar and the high place he broke down; and he burned the high place and beat it to dust, and burned the Asherah. 
2KI  23\v 15 Moreover the altar that was at Bethel and the high place which Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin, had made, even that altar and the high place he broke down; and he burned the high place and beat it to dust, and burned the Asherah. 
2KI  23\v 27 Yahweh said, “I will also remove Judah out of my sight, as I have removed Israel, and I will cast off this city which I have chosen, even Jerusalem, and the house of which I said, ‘My name shall be there.’” 
2KI  23\v 27 Yahweh said, “I will also remove Judah out of my sight, as I have removed Israel; and I will cast off this city which I have chosen, even Jerusalem, and the house of which I said, ‘My name shall be there.’” 
2KI  23\v 29 In his days Pharaoh Necoh king of Egypt went up against the king of Assyria to the river Euphrates; and king Josiah went against him; and Pharaoh Necoh killed him at Megiddo, when he had seen him. 
2KI  23\v 29 In his days Pharaoh Necoh king of Egypt went up against the king of Assyria to the river Euphrates; and king Josiah went against him, but Pharaoh Necoh killed him at Megiddo when he saw him. 
2KI  23\v 33 Pharaoh Necoh put him in bonds at Riblah in the land of Hamath, that he might not reign in Jerusalem; and put the land to a tribute of one hundred talents of silver, and a talent\f + \fr 23:33  \ft A talent is about 30 kilograms or 66 pounds or 965 Troy ounces\f* of gold. 
2KI  23\v 33 Pharaoh Necoh put him in bonds at Riblah in the land of Hamath, that he might not reign in Jerusalem; and put the land to a tribute of one hundred talents of silver and a talent\f + \fr 23:33  \ft A talent is about 30 kilograms or 66 pounds or 965 Troy ounces\f* of gold. 
2KI  24\v 3 Surely at the commandment of Yahweh this came on Judah, to remove them out of his sight, for the sins of Manasseh, according to all that he did, 
2KI  24\v 3 Surely at the commandment of Yahweh this came on Judah, to remove them out of his sight for the sins of Manasseh, according to all that he did, 
2KI  24\v 13 He carried out from there all the treasures of Yahweh’s house, and the treasures of the king’s house, and cut in pieces all the vessels of gold, which Solomon king of Israel had made in Yahweh’s temple, as Yahweh had said. 
2KI  24\v 13 He carried out from there all the treasures of Yahweh’s house and the treasures of the king’s house, and cut in pieces all the vessels of gold which Solomon king of Israel had made in Yahweh’s temple, as Yahweh had said. 
2KI  25\v 9 He burned Yahweh’s house, the king’s house, and all the houses of Jerusalem, even every great house, he burned with fire. 
2KI  25\v 9 He burned Yahweh’s house, the king’s house, and all the houses of Jerusalem. He burned every great house with fire. 
2KI  25\v 11 Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard carried away captive the residue of the people who were left in the city, and those who fell away, who fell to the king of Babylon, and the residue of the multitude. 
2KI  25\v 11 Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard carried away captive the rest of the people who were left in the city and those who had deserted to the king of Babylon—all the rest of the multitude. 
2KI  25\v 15 The captain of the guard took away the fire pans, the basins, that which was of gold, in gold, and that which was of silver, in silver. 
2KI  25\v 15 The captain of the guard took away the fire pans, the basins, that which was of gold, for gold, and that which was of silver, for silver. 
2KI  25\v 19 and out of the city he took an officer who was set over the men of war; and five men of those who saw the king’s face, who were found in the city; and the scribe, the captain of the army, who mustered the people of the land; and sixty men of the people of the land, who were found in the city. 
2KI  25\v 19 and out of the city he took an officer who was set over the men of war; and five men of those who saw the king’s face, who were found in the city; and the scribe, the captain of the army, who mustered the people of the land, and sixty men of the people of the land who were found in the city. 
2KI  25\v 21 The king of Babylon attacked them, and put them to death at Riblah in the land of Hamath. So Judah was carried away captive out of his land. 
2KI  25\v 21 The king of Babylon attacked them and put them to death at Riblah in the land of Hamath. So Judah was carried away captive out of his land. 
2KI  25\v 23 Now when all the captains of the forces, they and their men, heard that the king of Babylon had made Gedaliah governor, they came to Gedaliah to Mizpah, even Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and Johanan the son of Kareah, and Seraiah the son of Tanhumeth the Netophathite, and Jaazaniah the son of the Maacathite, they and their men. 
2KI  25\v 23 Now when all the captains of the forces, they and their men, heard that the king of Babylon had made Gedaliah governor, they came to Gedaliah to Mizpah, even Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, Johanan the son of Kareah, Seraiah the son of Tanhumeth the Netophathite, and Jaazaniah the son of the Maacathite, they and their men. 
2KI  25\v 25 But in the seventh month, Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, the son of Elishama, of the royal offspring came, and ten men with him, and struck Gedaliah, so that he died, with the Jews and the Chaldeans that were with him at Mizpah. 
2KI  25\v 25 But in the seventh month, Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, the son of Elishama, of the royal offspring came, and ten men with him, and struck Gedaliah so that he died, with the Jews and the Chaldeans that were with him at Mizpah. 
2KI  25\v 27 In the thirty-seventh year of the captivity of Jehoiachin king of Judah, in the twelfth month, on the twenty-seventh day of the month, Evilmerodach king of Babylon, in the year that he began to reign, lifted up the head of Jehoiachin king of Judah out of prison; 
2KI  25\v 27 In the thirty-seventh year of the captivity of Jehoiachin king of Judah, in the twelfth month, on the twenty-seventh day of the month, Evilmerodach king of Babylon, in the year that he began to reign, released Jehoiachin king of Judah out of prison, 
1CH   2\v 3 The sons of Judah: Er, Onan, and Shelah; which three were born to him of Shua’s daughter the Canaanitess. Er, Judah’s firstborn, was wicked in Yahweh’s\f + \fr 2:3  \ft “Yahweh” is God’s proper Name, sometimes rendered “LORD” (all caps) in other translations.\f* sight; and he killed him. 
1CH   2\v 3 The sons of Judah: Er, Onan, and Shelah, which three were born to him of Shua’s daughter the Canaanitess. Er, Judah’s firstborn, was wicked in Yahweh’s\f + \fr 2:3  \ft “Yahweh” is God’s proper Name, sometimes rendered “LORD” (all caps) in other translations.\f* sight; and he killed him. 
1CH   2\v 13 and Jesse became the father of his firstborn Eliab, and Abinadab the second, and Shimea the third, 
1CH   2\v 13 and Jesse became the father of his firstborn Eliab, Abinadab the second, Shimea the third, 
1CH   2\v 15 Ozem the sixth, David the seventh; 
1CH   2\v 15 Ozem the sixth, and David the seventh; 
1CH   2\v 49 She bore also Shaaph the father of Madmannah, Sheva the father of Machbena, and the father of Gibea; and the daughter of Caleb was Achsah. 
1CH   2\v 49 She bore also Shaaph the father of Madmannah, Sheva the father of Machbena and the father of Gibea; and the daughter of Caleb was Achsah. 
1CH   3\v 5 and these were born to him in Jerusalem: Shimea, Shobab, Nathan, and Solomon, four, of Bathshua the daughter of Ammiel; 
1CH   3\v 5 and these were born to him in Jerusalem: Shimea, Shobab, Nathan, and Solomon, four, by Bathshua the daughter of Ammiel; 
1CH   4\v 13 The sons of Kenaz: Othniel and Seraiah. The sons of Othniel: Hathath. 
1CH   4\v 13 The sons of Kenaz: Othniel and Seraiah. The sons of Othniel: Hathath.\f + \fr 4:13  \ft Greek and Vulgate add “and Meonothai”\f* 
1CH   4\v 17 The sons of Ezrah: Jether, Mered, Epher, and Jalon; and she bore Miriam, Shammai, and Ishbah the father of Eshtemoa. 
1CH   4\v 17 The sons of Ezrah: Jether, Mered, Epher, and Jalon; and Mered’s wife bore Miriam, Shammai, and Ishbah the father of Eshtemoa. 
1CH   4\v 19 The sons of the wife of Hodiah, the sister of Naham, were the father of Keilah the Garmite, and Eshtemoa the Maacathite. 
1CH   4\v 19 The sons of the wife of Hodiah, the sister of Naham, were the fathers of Keilah the Garmite and Eshtemoa the Maacathite. 
1CH   4\v 23 These were the potters, and the inhabitants of Netaim and Gederah: they lived there with the king for his work. 
1CH   4\v 23 These were the potters, and the inhabitants of Netaim and Gederah; they lived there with the king for his work. 
1CH   4\v 33 and all their villages that were around the same cities, to Baal. These were their settlements, and they have their genealogy. 
1CH   4\v 33 and all their villages that were around the same cities, as far as Baal. These were their settlements, and they kept their genealogy. 
1CH   4\v 41 These written by name came in the days of Hezekiah king of Judah, and struck their tents and the Meunim who were found there, and they destroyed them utterly to this day, and lived in their place; because there was pasture there for their flocks. 
1CH   4\v 41 These written by name came in the days of Hezekiah king of Judah, and struck their tents and the Meunim who were found there; and they destroyed them utterly to this day, and lived in their place, because there was pasture there for their flocks. 
1CH   5\v 1 The sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel (for he was the firstborn; but, because he defiled his father’s couch, his birthright was given to the sons of Joseph the son of Israel; and the genealogy is not to be listed according to the birthright. 
1CH   5\v 1 The sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel (for he was the firstborn, but because he defiled his father’s couch, his birthright was given to the sons of Joseph the son of Israel; and the genealogy is not to be listed according to the birthright. 
1CH   5\v 11 The sons of Gad lived beside them, in the land of Bashan to Salecah: 
1CH   5\v 11 The sons of Gad lived beside them in the land of Bashan to Salecah: 
1CH   5\v 21 They took away their livestock; of their camels fifty thousand, and of sheep two hundred fifty thousand, and of donkeys two thousand, and of men one hundred thousand. 
1CH   5\v 21 They took away their livestock: of their camels fifty thousand, and of sheep two hundred fifty thousand, and of donkeys two thousand, and of men one hundred thousand. 
1CH   5\v 23 The children of the half-tribe of Manasseh lived in the land: they increased from Bashan to Baal Hermon, Senir, and Mount Hermon. 
1CH   5\v 23 The children of the half-tribe of Manasseh lived in the land. They increased from Bashan to Baal Hermon, Senir, and Mount Hermon. 
1CH   5\v 25 They trespassed against the God of their fathers, and played the prostitute after the gods of the peoples of the land, whom God destroyed before them. 
1CH   5\v 25 They trespassed against the God of their fathers, and played the prostitute after the gods of the peoples of the land whom God destroyed before them. 
1CH   6\v 15 Jehozadak went into captivity, when Yahweh carried Judah and Jerusalem away by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar. 
1CH   6\v 15 Jehozadak went into captivity when Yahweh carried Judah and Jerusalem away by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar. 
1CH   6\v 23 Elkanah his son, and Ebiasaph his son, Assir his son, 
1CH   6\v 23 Elkanah his son, Ebiasaph his son, Assir his son, 
1CH   6\v 31 These are they whom David set over the service of song in Yahweh’s house, after the ark came to rest there. 
1CH   6\v 31 These are they whom David set over the service of song in Yahweh’s house after the ark came to rest there. 
1CH   6\v 57 To the sons of Aaron they gave the cities of refuge, Hebron; Libnah also with its pasture lands, Jattir, Eshtemoa with its pasture lands, 
1CH   6\v 57 To the sons of Aaron they gave the cities of refuge, Hebron, Libnah also with its pasture lands, Jattir, Eshtemoa with its pasture lands, 
1CH   6\v 67 They gave to them the cities of refuge, Shechem in the hill country of Ephraim with its pasture lands, and Gezer with its pasture lands, 
1CH   6\v 67 They gave to them the cities of refuge, Shechem in the hill country of Ephraim with its pasture lands and Gezer with its pasture lands, 
1CH   6\v 77 To the rest of the Levites, the sons of Merari, were given, out of the tribe of Zebulun, Rimmono with its pasture lands, Tabor with its pasture lands; 
1CH   6\v 77 To the rest of the Levites, the sons of Merari, were given, out of the tribe of Zebulun, Rimmono with its pasture lands, and Tabor with its pasture lands; 
1CH   7\v 1 Of the sons of Issachar: Tola, and Puah, Jashub, and Shimron, four. 
1CH   7\v 1 Of the sons of Issachar: Tola, Puah, Jashub, and Shimron, four. 
1CH   7\v 23 He went in to his wife, and she conceived, and bore a son, and he named him Beriah,\f + \fr 7:23  \ft “Beriah” is similar to the Hebrew word for “misfortune”.\f* because there was trouble with his house. 
1CH   7\v 23 He went in to his wife, and she conceived and bore a son, and he named him Beriah,\f + \fr 7:23  \ft “Beriah” is similar to the Hebrew word for “misfortune”.\f* because there was trouble with his house. 
1CH   7\v 25 Rephah was his son, and Resheph, and Telah his son, Tahan his son, 
1CH   7\v 25 Rephah was his son, Resheph his son, Telah his son, Tahan his son, 
1CH   8\v 13 and Beriah, and Shema, who were heads of fathers’ households of the inhabitants of Aijalon, who put to flight the inhabitants of Gath; 
1CH   8\v 13 and Beriah and Shema, who were heads of fathers’ households of the inhabitants of Aijalon, who put to flight the inhabitants of Gath; 
1CH   8\v 29 The father of Gibeon, whose wife’s name was Maacah, lived in Gibeon, 
1CH   8\v 29 The father of Gibeon, whose wife’s name was Maacah, lived in Gibeon 
1CH   8\v 31 Gedor, Ahio, and Zecher. 
1CH   8\v 31 Gedor, Ahio, Zecher, 
1CH   9\v 3 In Jerusalem lived of the children of Judah, of the children of Benjamin, and of the children of Ephraim and Manasseh: 
1CH   9\v 3 In Jerusalem, there lived of the children of Judah, of the children of Benjamin, and of the children of Ephraim and Manasseh: 
1CH   9\v 5 Of the Shilonites: Asaiah the firstborn, and his sons. 
1CH   9\v 5 Of the Shilonites: Asaiah the firstborn and his sons. 
1CH   9\v 7 Of the sons of Benjamin: Sallu the son of Meshullam, the son of Hodaviah, the son of Hassenuah, 
1CH   9\v 7 Of the sons of Benjamin: Sallu the son of Meshullam, the son of Hodaviah, the son of Hassenuah; 
1CH   9\v 13 and their brothers, heads of their fathers’ houses, one thousand seven hundred sixty; very able men for the work of the service of God’s house. 
1CH   9\v 13 and their brothers, heads of their fathers’ houses, one thousand seven hundred sixty; they were very able men for the work of the service of God’s house. 
1CH   9\v 19 Shallum the son of Kore, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah, and his brothers, of his father’s house, the Korahites, were over the work of the service, keepers of the thresholds of the tent. Their fathers had been over Yahweh’s camp, keepers of the entry. 
1CH   9\v 19 Shallum was the son of Kore, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah, and his brothers, of his father’s house, the Korahites, were over the work of the service, keepers of the thresholds of the tent. Their fathers had been over Yahweh’s camp, keepers of the entry. 
1CH   9\v 25 Their brothers, in their villages, were to come in every seven days from time to time to be with them: 
1CH   9\v 25 Their brothers, in their villages, were to come in every seven days from time to time to be with them, 
1CH   9\v 27 They stayed around God’s house, because that duty was on them; and to their duty was its opening morning by morning. 
1CH   9\v 27 They stayed around God’s house, because that was their duty; and it was their duty to open it morning by morning. 
1CH   9\v 33 These are the singers, heads of fathers’ households of the Levites, who lived in the rooms and were free from other service; for they were employed in their work day and night. 
1CH   9\v 33 These are the singers, heads of fathers’ households of the Levites, who lived in the rooms and were free from other service, for they were employed in their work day and night. 
1CH   9\v 35 Jeiel the father of Gibeon, whose wife’s name was Maacah, lived in Gibeon with 
1CH   9\v 35 Jeiel the father of Gibeon, whose wife’s name was Maacah, lived in Gibeon. 
1CH   9\v 43 Moza became the father of Binea; and Rephaiah his son, Eleasah his son, and Azel his son. 
1CH   9\v 43 Moza became the father of Binea, Rephaiah his son, Eleasah his son, and Azel his son. 
1CH  10\v 1 Now the Philistines fought against Israel, and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain on Mount Gilboa. 
1CH  10\v 1 Now the Philistines fought against Israel; and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain on Mount Gilboa. 
1CH  10\v 5 When his armor bearer saw that Saul was dead, he likewise fell on his sword, and died. 
1CH  10\v 5 When his armor bearer saw that Saul was dead, he likewise fell on his sword and died. 
1CH  10\v 9 They stripped him, and took his head and his armor, and sent into the land of the Philistines all around, to carry the news to their idols, and to the people. 
1CH  10\v 9 They stripped him and took his head and his armor, then sent into the land of the Philistines all around to carry the news to their idols and to the people. 
1CH  10\v 13 So Saul died for his trespass which he committed against Yahweh, because of Yahweh’s word, which he didn’t keep; and also because he asked counsel of one who had a familiar spirit, to inquire, 
1CH  10\v 13 So Saul died for his trespass which he committed against Yahweh, because of Yahweh’s word, which he didn’t keep, and also because he asked counsel of one who had a familiar spirit, to inquire, 
1CH  11\v 3 So all the elders of Israel came to the king to Hebron; and David made a covenant with them in Hebron before Yahweh; and they anointed David king over Israel, according to Yahweh’s word by Samuel. 
1CH  11\v 3 So all the elders of Israel came to the king to Hebron; and David made a covenant with them in Hebron before Yahweh. They anointed David king over Israel, according to Yahweh’s word by Samuel. 
1CH  11\v 5 The inhabitants of Jebus said to David, “You will not come in here.” Nevertheless David took the stronghold of Zion. The same is David’s city. 
1CH  11\v 5 The inhabitants of Jebus said to David, “You will not come in here!” Nevertheless David took the stronghold of Zion. The same is David’s city. 
1CH  11\v 9 David grew greater and greater; for Yahweh of Armies was with him. 
1CH  11\v 9 David grew greater and greater, for Yahweh of Armies was with him. 
1CH  11\v 17 David longed, and said, “Oh that someone would give me water to drink from the well of Bethlehem, which is by the gate!” 
1CH  11\v 17 David longed, and said, “Oh, that someone would give me water to drink from the well of Bethlehem, which is by the gate!” 
1CH  11\v 39 Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai the Berothite, the armor bearer of Joab the son of Zeruiah, 
1CH  11\v 39 Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai the Berothite (the armor bearer of Joab the son of Zeruiah), 
1CH  11\v 43 Hanan the son of Maacah, and Joshaphat the Mithnite, 
1CH  11\v 43 Hanan the son of Maacah, Joshaphat the Mithnite, 
1CH  12\v 47 Eliel, and Obed, and Jaasiel the Mezobaite. 
1CH  12\v 47 Eliel, Obed, and Jaasiel the Mezobaite. 
1CH  12\v 1 Now these are those who came to David to Ziklag, while he was a fugitive from Saul the son of Kish. They were among the mighty men, his helpers in war. 
1CH  12\v 1 Now these are those who came to David to Ziklag while he was a fugitive from Saul the son of Kish. They were among the mighty men, his helpers in war. 
1CH  12\v 19 Some of Manasseh also joined David, when he came with the Philistines against Saul to battle; but they didn’t help them; for the lords of the Philistines sent him away after consultation, saying, “He will desert to his master Saul to the jeopardy of our heads.” 
1CH  12\v 19 Some of Manasseh also joined David when he came with the Philistines against Saul to battle, but they didn’t help them, for the lords of the Philistines sent him away after consultation, saying, “He will desert to his master Saul to the jeopardy of our heads.” 
1CH  12\v 21 They helped David against the band of rovers; for they were all mighty men of valor, and were captains in the army. 
1CH  12\v 21 They helped David against the band of raiders, for they were all mighty men of valor and were captains in the army. 
1CH  12\v 23 These are the numbers of the heads of those who were armed for war, who came to David to Hebron, to turn the kingdom of Saul to him, according to Yahweh’s word. 
1CH  12\v 23 These are the numbers of the heads of those who were armed for war, who came to David to Hebron to turn the kingdom of Saul to him, according to Yahweh’s word. 
1CH  12\v 33 Of Zebulun, such as were able to go out in the army, who could set the battle in array, with all kinds of instruments of war: fifty thousand who could command and were not of double heart. 
1CH  12\v 33 Of Zebulun, such as were able to go out in the army, who could set the battle in array with all kinds of instruments of war: fifty thousand who could command and were not of double heart. 
1CH  13\v 3 Also, let’s bring the ark of our God back to us again; for we didn’t seek it in the days of Saul.” 
1CH  13\v 3 Also, let’s bring the ark of our God back to us again, for we didn’t seek it in the days of Saul.” 
1CH  13\v 9 When they came to Chidon’s threshing floor, Uzza put out his hand to hold the ark; for the oxen stumbled. 
1CH  13\v 9 When they came to Chidon’s threshing floor, Uzza put out his hand to hold the ark, for the oxen stumbled. 
1CH  14\v 3 David took more wives at Jerusalem, and David became the father of more sons and daughters. 
1CH  14\v 3 David took more wives in Jerusalem, and David became the father of more sons and daughters. 
1CH  15\v 11 David called for Zadok and Abiathar the priests, and for the Levites, for Uriel, Asaiah, Joel, Shemaiah, Eliel, and Amminadab, 
1CH  15\v 11 David called for Zadok and Abiathar the priests, and for the Levites: for Uriel, Asaiah, Joel, Shemaiah, Eliel, and Amminadab, 
1CH  15\v 25 So David, the elders of Israel, and the captains over thousands, went to bring the ark of Yahweh’s covenant up out of the house of Obed-Edom with joy. 
1CH  15\v 25 So David, the elders of Israel, and the captains over thousands went to bring the ark of Yahweh’s covenant up out of the house of Obed-Edom with joy. 
1CH  16\v 7 Then on that day David first ordained to give thanks to Yahweh, by the hand of Asaph and his brothers. 
1CH  16\v 7 Then on that day David first ordained giving of thanks to Yahweh by the hand of Asaph and his brothers. 
1CH  16\v 15 Remember his covenant forever, 
1CH  16\v 14 He is Yahweh our God. 
1CH  16\v 17 He confirmed it to Jacob for a statute, 
1CH  16\v 16 the covenant which he made with Abraham, 
1CH  16\v 19 when you were but a few men in number, 
1CH  16\v 18 saying, “I will give you the land of Canaan, 
1CH  16\v 21 He allowed no man to do them wrong. 
1CH  16\v 20 They went about from nation to nation, 
1CH  16\v 23 Sing to Yahweh, all the earth! 
1CH  16\v 22 “Don’t touch my anointed ones! 
1CH  16\v 25 For great is Yahweh, and greatly to be praised. 
1CH  16\v 23 Sing to Yahweh, all the earth! 
1CH  16\v 27 Honor and majesty are before him. 
1CH  16\v 25 For great is Yahweh, and greatly to be praised. 
1CH  16\v 29 Ascribe to Yahweh the glory due to his name. 
1CH  16\v 27 Honor and majesty are before him. 
1CH  16\v 31 Let the heavens be glad, 
1CH  16\v 28 Ascribe to Yahweh, you families of the peoples, 
1CH  16\v 33 Then the trees of the forest will sing for joy before Yahweh, 
1CH  16\v 30 Tremble before him, all the earth. 
1CH  16\v 35 Say, “Save us, God of our salvation! 
1CH  16\v 32 Let the sea roar, and its fullness! 
1CH  16\v 37 So he left Asaph and his brothers there before the ark of Yahweh’s covenant, to minister before the ark continually, as every day’s work required; 
1CH  16\v 34 Oh give thanks to Yahweh, for he is good, 
1CH  16\v 39 and Zadok the priest, and his brothers the priests, before Yahweh’s tabernacle in the high place that was at Gibeon, 
1CH  16\v 36 Blessed be Yahweh, the God of Israel, 
1CH  16\v 41 and with them Heman and Jeduthun, and the rest who were chosen, who were mentioned by name, to give thanks to Yahweh, because his loving kindness endures forever; 
1CH  16\v 38 and Obed-Edom with their sixty-eight relatives; Obed-Edom also the son of Jeduthun and Hosah to be doorkeepers; 
1CH  17\v 43 All the people departed, each man to his house; and David returned to bless his house. 
1CH  16\v 40 to offer burnt offerings to Yahweh on the altar of burnt offering continually morning and evening, even according to all that is written in Yahweh’s law, which he commanded to Israel; 
1CH  17\v 1 When David lived in his house, David said to Nathan the prophet, “Behold, I dwell in a house of cedar, but the ark of Yahweh’s covenant is in a tent.” 
1CH  16\v 42 and with them Heman and Jeduthun with trumpets and cymbals for those that should sound aloud, and with instruments for the songs of God, and the sons of Jeduthun to be at the gate. 
1CH  17\v 3 That same night, the word of God came to Nathan, saying, 
1CH  171CH  17\v 5 for I have not lived in a house since the day that I brought up Israel to this day, but have gone from tent to tent, and from one tent to another. 
1CH  17\v 1 When David was living in his house, David said to Nathan the prophet, “Behold, I live in a cedar house, but the ark of Yahweh’s covenant is in a tent.” 
1CH  17\v 7 “Now therefore, you shall tell my servant David, ‘Yahweh of Armies says, “I took you from the sheep pen, from following the sheep, to be prince over my people Israel. 
1CH  17\v 3 That same night, the word of God came to Nathan, saying, 
1CH  17\v 9 I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and will plant them, that they may dwell in their own place, and be moved no more. The children of wickedness will not waste them any more, as at the first, 
1CH  17\v 5 for I have not lived in a house since the day that I brought up Israel to this day, but have gone from tent to tent, and from one tent to another. 
1CH  17\v 11 It will happen, when your days are fulfilled that you must go to be with your fathers, that I will set up your offspring after you, who will be of your sons; and I will establish his kingdom. 
1CH  17\v 7 “Now therefore, you shall tell my servant David, ‘Yahweh of Armies says, “I took you from the sheep pen, from following the sheep, to be prince over my people Israel. 
1CH  17\v 13 I will be his father, and he will be my son. I will not take my loving kindness away from him, as I took it from him who was before you; 
1CH  17\v 9 I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and will plant them, that they may dwell in their own place, and be moved no more. The children of wickedness will not waste them any more, as at the first, 
1CH  17\v 15 According to all these words, and according to all this vision, so Nathan spoke to David. 
1CH  17\v 11 It will happen, when your days are fulfilled that you must go to be with your fathers, that I will set up your offspring after you, who will be of your sons; and I will establish his kingdom. 
1CH  17\v 17 This was a small thing in your eyes, God; but you have spoken of your servant’s house for a great while to come, and have respected me according to the standard of a man of high degree, Yahweh God. 
1CH  17\v 13 I will be his father, and he will be my son. I will not take my loving kindness away from him, as I took it from him who was before you; 
1CH  17\v 19 Yahweh, for your servant’s sake, and according to your own heart, you have done all this greatness, to make known all these great things. 
1CH  17\v 15 According to all these words, and according to all this vision, so Nathan spoke to David. 
1CH  17\v 21 What one nation in the earth is like your people Israel, whom God went to redeem to himself for a people, to make you a name by great and awesome things, in driving out nations from before your people, whom you redeemed out of Egypt? 
1CH  17\v 17 This was a small thing in your eyes, O God, but you have spoken of your servant’s house for a great while to come, and have respected me according to the standard of a man of high degree, Yahweh God. 
1CH  17\v 23 Now, Yahweh, let the word that you have spoken concerning your servant, and concerning his house, be established forever, and do as you have spoken. 
1CH  17\v 19 Yahweh, for your servant’s sake, and according to your own heart, you have done all this greatness, to make known all these great things. 
1CH  17\v 25 For you, my God, have revealed to your servant that you will build him a house. Therefore your servant has found courage to pray before you. 
1CH  17\v 21 What one nation in the earth is like your people Israel, whom God went to redeem to himself for a people, to make you a name by great and awesome things, in driving out nations from before your people whom you redeemed out of Egypt? 
1CH  18\v 27 Now it has pleased you to bless the house of your servant, that it may continue forever before you; for you, Yahweh, have blessed, and it is blessed forever.” 
1CH  17\v 23 Now, Yahweh, let the word that you have spoken concerning your servant, and concerning his house, be established forever, and do as you have spoken. 
1CH  18\v 1 After this, David defeated the Philistines and subdued them, and took Gath and its towns out of the hand of the Philistines. 
1CH  17\v 25 For you, my God, have revealed to your servant that you will build him a house. Therefore your servant has found courage to pray before you. 
1CH  18\v 3 David defeated Hadadezer king of Zobah to Hamath, as he went to establish his dominion by the river Euphrates. 
1CH  18\v 27 Now it has pleased you to bless the house of your servant, that it may continue forever before you; for you, Yahweh, have blessed, and it is blessed forever.” 
1CH  18\v 5 When the Syrians of Damascus came to help Hadadezer king of Zobah, David struck twenty-two thousand men of the Syrians. 
1CH  18\v 1 After this, David defeated the Philistines and subdued them, and took Gath and its towns out of the hand of the Philistines. 
1CH  18\v 7 David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadadezer, and brought them to Jerusalem. 
1CH  18\v 3 David defeated Hadadezer king of Zobah, toward Hamath, as he went to establish his dominion by the river Euphrates. 
1CH  18\v 9 When Tou king of Hamath heard that David had struck all the army of Hadadezer king of Zobah, 
1CH  18\v 5 When the Syrians of Damascus came to help Hadadezer king of Zobah, David struck twenty-two thousand men of the Syrians. 
1CH  18\v 11 King David also dedicated these to Yahweh, with the silver and the gold that he carried away from all the nations; from Edom, from Moab, from the children of Ammon, from the Philistines, and from Amalek. 
1CH  18\v 7 David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadadezer, and brought them to Jerusalem. 
1CH  18\v 13 He put garrisons in Edom; and all the Edomites became servants to David. Yahweh gave victory to David wherever he went. 
1CH  18\v 9 When Tou king of Hamath heard that David had struck all the army of Hadadezer king of Zobah, 
1CH  18\v 15 Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the army; Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder; 
1CH  18\v 11 King David also dedicated these to Yahweh, with the silver and the gold that he carried away from all the nations: from Edom, from Moab, from the children of Ammon, from the Philistines, and from Amalek. 
1CH  19\v 17 and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and the sons of David were chief officials serving the king. 
1CH  18\v 13 He put garrisons in Edom; and all the Edomites became servants to David. Yahweh gave victory to David wherever he went. 
1CH  19\v 1 After this, Nahash the king of the children of Ammon died, and his son reigned in his place. 
1CH  18\v 15 Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the army; Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder; 
1CH  19\v 3 But the princes of the children of Ammon said to Hanun, “Do you think that David honors your father, in that he has sent comforters to you? Haven’t his servants come to you to search, to overthrow, and to spy out the land?” 
1CH  19\v 17 and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and the sons of David were chief officials serving the king. 
1CH  19\v 5 Then some people went and told David how the men were treated. He sent to meet them; for the men were greatly humiliated. The king said, “Stay at Jericho until your beards have grown, and then return.” 
1CH  19\v 1 After this, Nahash the king of the children of Ammon died, and his son reigned in his place. 
1CH  19\v 7 So they hired for themselves thirty-two thousand chariots, and the king of Maacah with his people, who came and encamped near Medeba. The children of Ammon gathered themselves together from their cities, and came to battle. 
1CH  19\v 3 But the princes of the children of Ammon said to Hanun, “Do you think that David honors your father, in that he has sent comforters to you? Haven’t his servants come to you to search, to overthrow, and to spy out the land?” 
1CH  19\v 9 The children of Ammon came out, and put the battle in array at the gate of the city; and the kings who had come were by themselves in the field. 
1CH  19\v 5 Then some people went and told David how the men were treated. He sent to meet them; for the men were greatly humiliated. The king said, “Stay at Jericho until your beards have grown, and then return.” 
1CH  19\v 11 The rest of the people he committed into the hand of Abishai his brother; and they put themselves in array against the children of Ammon. 
1CH  19\v 7 So they hired for themselves thirty-two thousand chariots, and the king of Maacah with his people, who came and encamped near Medeba. The children of Ammon gathered themselves together from their cities, and came to battle. 
1CH  19\v 13 Be courageous, and let’s be strong for our people and for the cities of our God. May Yahweh do that which seems good to him.” 
1CH  19\v 9 The children of Ammon came out, and put the battle in array at the gate of the city; and the kings who had come were by themselves in the field. 
1CH  19\v 15 When the children of Ammon saw that the Syrians had fled, they likewise fled before Abishai his brother, and entered into the city. Then Joab came to Jerusalem. 
1CH  19\v 11 The rest of the people he committed into the hand of Abishai his brother; and they put themselves in array against the children of Ammon. 
1CH  19\v 17 David was told that; so he gathered all Israel together, passed over the Jordan, came to them, and set the battle in array against them. So when David had put the battle in array against the Syrians, they fought with him. 
1CH  19\v 13 Be courageous, and let’s be strong for our people and for the cities of our God. May Yahweh do that which seems good to him.” 
1CH  20\v 19 When the servants of Hadadezer saw that they were defeated by Israel, they made peace with David, and served him. The Syrians would not help the children of Ammon any more. 
1CH  19\v 15 When the children of Ammon saw that the Syrians had fled, they likewise fled before Abishai his brother, and entered into the city. Then Joab came to Jerusalem. 
1CH  20\v 1 At the time of the return of the year, at the time when kings go out, Joab led out the army, and wasted the country of the children of Ammon, and came and besieged Rabbah. But David stayed at Jerusalem. Joab struck Rabbah, and overthrew it. 
1CH  19\v 17 David was told that, so he gathered all Israel together, passed over the Jordan, came to them, and set the battle in array against them. So when David had put the battle in array against the Syrians, they fought with him. 
1CH  20\v 3 He brought out the people who were in it, and had them cut with saws, with iron picks, and with axes. David did so to all the cities of the children of Ammon. Then David and all the people returned to Jerusalem. 
1CH  20\v 19 When the servants of Hadadezer saw that they were defeated by Israel, they made peace with David and served him. The Syrians would not help the children of Ammon any more. 
1CH  20\v 5 Again there was war with the Philistines; and Elhanan the son of Jair killed Lahmi the brother of Goliath the Gittite, the staff of whose spear was like a weaver’s beam. 
1CH  20\v 1 At the time of the return of the year, at the time when kings go out, Joab led out the army and wasted the country of the children of Ammon, and came and besieged Rabbah. But David stayed at Jerusalem. Joab struck Rabbah, and overthrew it. 
1CH  20\v 7 When he defied Israel, Jonathan the son of Shimea David’s brother killed him. 
1CH  20\v 3 He brought out the people who were in it, and had them cut with saws, with iron picks, and with axes. David did so to all the cities of the children of Ammon. Then David and all the people returned to Jerusalem. 
1CH  211CH  20\v 5 Again there was war with the Philistines; and Elhanan the son of Jair killed Lahmi the brother of Goliath the Gittite, the staff of whose spear was like a weaver’s beam. 
1CH  21\v 1 Satan stood up against Israel, and moved David to take a census of Israel. 
1CH  20\v 7 When he defied Israel, Jonathan the son of Shimea, David’s brother, killed him. 
1CH  21\v 3 Joab said, “May Yahweh make his people a hundred times as many as they are. But, my lord the king, aren’t they all my lord’s servants? Why does my lord require this thing? Why will he be a cause of guilt to Israel?” 
1CH  211CH  21\v 5 Joab gave up the sum of the census of the people to David. All those of Israel were one million one hundred thousand men who drew a sword; and in Judah were four hundred seventy thousand men who drew a sword. 
1CH  21\v 1 Satan stood up against Israel, and moved David to take a census of Israel. 
1CH  21\v 7 God was displeased with this thing; therefore he struck Israel. 
1CH  21\v 3 Joab said, “May Yahweh make his people a hundred times as many as they are. But, my lord the king, aren’t they all my lord’s servants? Why does my lord require this thing? Why will he be a cause of guilt to Israel?” 
1CH  21\v 9 Yahweh spoke to Gad, David’s seer, saying, 
1CH  21\v 5 Joab gave the sum of the census of the people to David. All those of Israel were one million one hundred thousand men who drew a sword; and in Judah were four hundred seventy thousand men who drew a sword. 
1CH  21\v 11 So Gad came to David, and said to him, “Yahweh says, ‘Take your choice: 
1CH  21\v 7 God was displeased with this thing; therefore he struck Israel. 
1CH  21\v 13 David said to Gad, “I am in distress. Let me fall, I pray, into Yahweh’s hand; for his mercies are very great. Don’t let me fall into man’s hand.” 
1CH  21\v 9 Yahweh spoke to Gad, David’s seer, saying, 
1CH  21\v 15 God sent an angel to Jerusalem to destroy it. As he was about to destroy, Yahweh saw, and he relented of the disaster, and said to the destroying angel, “It is enough. Now withdraw your hand.” Yahweh’s angel was standing by the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite. 
1CH  21\v 11 So Gad came to David and said to him, “Yahweh says, ‘Take your choice: 
1CH  21\v 17 David said to God, “Isn’t it I who commanded the people to be counted? It is even I who have sinned and done very wickedly; but these sheep, what have they done? Please let your hand, O Yahweh my God, be against me, and against my father’s house; but not against your people, that they should be plagued.” 
1CH  21\v 13 David said to Gad, “I am in distress. Let me fall, I pray, into Yahweh’s hand, for his mercies are very great. Don’t let me fall into man’s hand.” 
1CH  21\v 19 David went up at the saying of Gad, which he spoke in Yahweh’s name. 
1CH  21\v 15 God sent an angel to Jerusalem to destroy it. As he was about to destroy, Yahweh saw, and he relented of the disaster, and said to the destroying angel, “It is enough. Now withdraw your hand.” Yahweh’s angel was standing by the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite. 
1CH  21\v 21 As David came to Ornan, Ornan looked and saw David, and went out of the threshing floor, and bowed himself to David with his face to the ground. 
1CH  21\v 17 David said to God, “Isn’t it I who commanded the people to be counted? It is even I who have sinned and done very wickedly; but these sheep, what have they done? Please let your hand, O Yahweh my God, be against me and against my father’s house; but not against your people, that they should be plagued.” 
1CH  21\v 23 Ornan said to David, “Take it for yourself, and let my lord the king do that which is good in his eyes. Behold, I give the oxen for burnt offerings, and the threshing instruments for wood, and the wheat for the meal offering. I give it all.” 
1CH  21\v 19 David went up at the saying of Gad, which he spoke in Yahweh’s name. 
1CH  21\v 25 So David gave to Ornan six hundred shekels\f + \fr 21:25  \ft A shekel is about 10 grams or about 0.32 Troy ounces, so 600 shekels was about 6 kilograms or about 192 Troy ounces.\f* of gold by weight for the place. 
1CH  21\v 21 As David came to Ornan, Ornan looked and saw David, and went out of the threshing floor, and bowed himself to David with his face to the ground. 
1CH  21\v 27 Then Yahweh commanded the angel, and he put his sword back into its sheath. 
1CH  21\v 23 Ornan said to David, “Take it for yourself, and let my lord the king do that which is good in his eyes. Behold, I give the oxen for burnt offerings, and the threshing instruments for wood, and the wheat for the meal offering. I give it all.” 
1CH  21\v 29 For Yahweh’s tabernacle, which Moses made in the wilderness, and the altar of burnt offering, were at that time in the high place at Gibeon. 
1CH  21\v 25 So David gave to Ornan six hundred shekels\f + \fr 21:25  \ft A shekel is about 10 grams or about 0.32 Troy ounces, so 600 shekels was about 6 kilograms or about 192 Troy ounces.\f* of gold by weight for the place. 
1CH  221CH  21\v 27 Then Yahweh commanded the angel, and he put his sword back into its sheath. 
1CH  22\v 1 Then David said, “This is the house of Yahweh God, and this is the altar of burnt offering for Israel.” 
1CH  21\v 29 For Yahweh’s tabernacle, which Moses made in the wilderness, and the altar of burnt offering, were at that time in the high place at Gibeon. 
1CH  22\v 3 David prepared iron in abundance for the nails for the doors of the gates, and for the couplings; and bronze in abundance without weight; 
1CH  221CH  22\v 5 David said, “Solomon my son is young and tender, and the house that is to be built for Yahweh must be exceedingly magnificent, of fame and of glory throughout all countries. I will therefore make preparation for it.” So David prepared abundantly before his death. 
1CH  22\v 1 Then David said, “This is the house of Yahweh God, and this is the altar of burnt offering for Israel.” 
1CH  22\v 7 David said to Solomon his son, “As for me, it was in my heart to build a house to the name of Yahweh my God. 
1CH  22\v 3 David prepared iron in abundance for the nails for the doors of the gates and for the couplings, and bronze in abundance without weight, 
1CH  22\v 9 Behold, a son shall be born to you, who shall be a man of peace. I will give him rest from all his enemies all around; for his name shall be Solomon, and I will give peace and quietness to Israel in his days. 
1CH  22\v 5 David said, “Solomon my son is young and tender, and the house that is to be built for Yahweh must be exceedingly magnificent, of fame and of glory throughout all countries. I will therefore make preparation for it.” So David prepared abundantly before his death. 
1CH  22\v 11 Now, my son, may Yahweh be with you and prosper you, and build the house of Yahweh your God, as he has spoken concerning you. 
1CH  22\v 7 David said to Solomon his son, “As for me, it was in my heart to build a house to the name of Yahweh my God. 
1CH  22\v 13 Then you will prosper, if you observe to do the statutes and the ordinances which Yahweh gave Moses concerning Israel. Be strong and courageous. Don’t be afraid, and don’t be dismayed. 
1CH  22\v 9 Behold, a son shall be born to you, who shall be a man of peace. I will give him rest from all his enemies all around; for his name shall be Solomon, and I will give peace and quietness to Israel in his days. 
1CH  22\v 15 There are also workmen with you in abundance, cutters and workers of stone and timber, and all kinds of men who are skillful in every kind of work; 
1CH  22\v 11 Now, my son, may Yahweh be with you and prosper you, and build the house of Yahweh your God, as he has spoken concerning you. 
1CH  22\v 17 David also commanded all the princes of Israel to help Solomon his son, saying, 
1CH  22\v 13 Then you will prosper, if you observe to do the statutes and the ordinances which Yahweh gave Moses concerning Israel. Be strong and courageous. Don’t be afraid and don’t be dismayed. 
1CH  23\v 19 Now set your heart and your soul to follow Yahweh your God. Arise therefore, and build the sanctuary of Yahweh God, to bring the ark of Yahweh’s covenant and the holy vessels of God into the house that is to be built for Yahweh’s name.” 
1CH  22\v 15 There are also workmen with you in abundance—cutters and workers of stone and timber, and all kinds of men who are skillful in every kind of work; 
1CH  23\v 1 Now David was old and full of days; and he made Solomon his son king over Israel. 
1CH  22\v 17 David also commanded all the princes of Israel to help Solomon his son, saying, 
1CH  23\v 3 The Levites were counted from thirty years old and upward; and their number by their polls, man by man, was thirty-eight thousand. 
1CH  23\v 19 Now set your heart and your soul to follow Yahweh your God. Arise therefore, and build the sanctuary of Yahweh God, to bring the ark of Yahweh’s covenant and the holy vessels of God into the house that is to be built for Yahweh’s name.” 
1CH  23\v 5 four thousand were doorkeepers, and four thousand praised Yahweh with the instruments which I made for giving praise.” 
1CH  23\v 1 Now David was old and full of days; and he made Solomon his son king over Israel. 
1CH  23\v 7 Of the Gershonites: Ladan and Shimei. 
1CH  23\v 3 The Levites were counted from thirty years old and upward; and their number by their polls, man by man, was thirty-eight thousand. 
1CH  23\v 9 The sons of Shimei: Shelomoth, Haziel, and Haran, three. These were the heads of the fathers’ households of Ladan. 
1CH  23\v 5 four thousand were doorkeepers, and four thousand praised Yahweh with the instruments which I made for giving praise.” 
1CH  23\v 11 Jahath was the chief, and Zizah the second; but Jeush and Beriah didn’t have many sons; therefore they became a fathers’ house in one reckoning. 
1CH  23\v 7 Of the Gershonites: Ladan and Shimei. 
1CH  23\v 13 The sons of Amram: Aaron and Moses; and Aaron was separated, that he should sanctify the most holy things, he and his sons, forever, to burn incense before Yahweh, to minister to him, and to bless in his name, forever. 
1CH  23\v 9 The sons of Shimei: Shelomoth, Haziel, and Haran, three. These were the heads of the fathers’ households of Ladan. 
1CH  23\v 15 The sons of Moses: Gershom and Eliezer. 
1CH  23\v 11 Jahath was the chief, and Zizah the second; but Jeush and Beriah didn’t have many sons; therefore they became a fathers’ house in one reckoning. 
1CH  23\v 17 The sons of Eliezer were: Rehabiah the chief; and Eliezer had no other sons; but the sons of Rehabiah were very many. 
1CH  23\v 13 The sons of Amram: Aaron and Moses; and Aaron was separated that he should sanctify the most holy things, he and his sons forever, to burn incense before Yahweh, to minister to him, and to bless in his name forever. 
1CH  23\v 19 The sons of Hebron: Jeriah the chief, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, and Jekameam the fourth. 
1CH  23\v 15 The sons of Moses: Gershom and Eliezer. 
1CH  23\v 21 The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. The sons of Mahli: Eleazar and Kish. 
1CH  23\v 17 The son of Eliezer was Rehabiah the chief; and Eliezer had no other sons, but the sons of Rehabiah were very many. 
1CH  23\v 23 The sons of Mushi: Mahli, Eder, and Jeremoth, three. 
1CH  23\v 19 The sons of Hebron: Jeriah the chief, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, and Jekameam the fourth. 
1CH  23\v 25 For David said, “Yahweh, the God of Israel, has given rest to his people; and he dwells in Jerusalem forever. 
1CH  23\v 21 The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. The sons of Mahli: Eleazar and Kish. 
1CH  23\v 27 For by the last words of David the sons of Levi were counted, from twenty years old and upward. 
1CH  23\v 23 The sons of Mushi: Mahli, Eder, and Jeremoth, three. 
1CH  23\v 29 for the show bread also, and for the fine flour for a meal offering, whether of unleavened wafers, or of that which is baked in the pan, or of that which is soaked, and for all measurements of quantity and size; 
1CH  23\v 25 For David said, “Yahweh, the God of Israel, has given rest to his people; and he dwells in Jerusalem forever. 
1CH  23\v 31 and to offer all burnt offerings to Yahweh, on the Sabbaths, on the new moons, and on the set feasts, in number according to the ordinance concerning them, continually before Yahweh; 
1CH  23\v 27 For by the last words of David the sons of Levi were counted, from twenty years old and upward. 
1CH  241CH  23\v 29 for the show bread also, and for the fine flour for a meal offering, whether of unleavened wafers, or of that which is baked in the pan, or of that which is soaked, and for all measurements of quantity and size; 
1CH  24\v 1 These were the divisions of the sons of Aaron. The sons of Aaron: Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar. 
1CH  23\v 31 and to offer all burnt offerings to Yahweh on the Sabbaths, on the new moons, and on the set feasts, in number according to the ordinance concerning them, continually before Yahweh; 
1CH  24\v 3 David with Zadok of the sons of Eleazar and Ahimelech of the sons of Ithamar, divided them according to their ordering in their service. 
1CH  241CH  24\v 5 Thus they were divided impartially by drawing lots; for there were princes of the sanctuary, and princes of God, both of the sons of Eleazar, and of the sons of Ithamar. 
1CH  24\v 1 These were the divisions of the sons of Aaron. The sons of Aaron: Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar. 
1CH  24\v 7 Now the first lot came out to Jehoiarib, the second to Jedaiah, 
1CH  24\v 3 David, with Zadok of the sons of Eleazar and Ahimelech of the sons of Ithamar, divided them according to their ordering in their service. 
1CH  24\v 9 the fifth to Malchijah, the sixth to Mijamin, 
1CH  24\v 5 Thus they were divided impartially by drawing lots; for there were princes of the sanctuary and princes of God, both of the sons of Eleazar, and of the sons of Ithamar. 
1CH  24\v 11 the ninth to Jeshua, the tenth to Shecaniah, 
1CH  24\v 7 Now the first lot came out to Jehoiarib, the second to Jedaiah, 
1CH  24\v 13 the thirteenth to Huppah, the fourteenth to Jeshebeab, 
1CH  24\v 9 the fifth to Malchijah, the sixth to Mijamin, 
1CH  24\v 15 the seventeenth to Hezir, the eighteenth to Happizzez, 
1CH  24\v 11 the ninth to Jeshua, the tenth to Shecaniah, 
1CH  24\v 17 the twenty-first to Jachin, the twenty-second to Gamul, 
1CH  24\v 13 the thirteenth to Huppah, the fourteenth to Jeshebeab, 
1CH  24\v 19 This was their ordering in their service, to come into Yahweh’s house according to the ordinance given to them by Aaron their father, as Yahweh, the God of Israel, had commanded him. 
1CH  24\v 15 the seventeenth to Hezir, the eighteenth to Happizzez, 
1CH  24\v 21 Of Rehabiah: of the sons of Rehabiah, Isshiah the chief. 
1CH  24\v 17 the twenty-first to Jachin, the twenty-second to Gamul, 
1CH  24\v 23 The sons of Hebron: Jeriah, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, and Jekameam the fourth. 
1CH  24\v 19 This was their ordering in their service, to come into Yahweh’s house according to the ordinance given to them by Aaron their father, as Yahweh, the God of Israel, had commanded him. 
1CH  24\v 25 The brother of Micah: Isshiah; of the sons of Isshiah, Zechariah. 
1CH  24\v 21 Of Rehabiah: of the sons of Rehabiah, Isshiah the chief. 
1CH  24\v 27 The sons of Merari: of Jaaziah, Beno, Shoham, Zaccur, and Ibri. 
1CH  24\v 23 The sons of Hebron: Jeriah, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, and Jekameam the fourth. 
1CH  24\v 29 Of Kish, the son of Kish: Jerahmeel. 
1CH  24\v 25 The brother of Micah: Isshiah; of the sons of Isshiah, Zechariah. 
1CH  25\v 31 These likewise cast lots even as their brothers the sons of Aaron in the presence of David the king, Zadok, Ahimelech, and the heads of the fathers’ households of the priests and of the Levites; the fathers’ households of the chief even as those of his younger brother. 
1CH  24\v 27 The sons of Merari by Jaaziah: Beno, Shoham, Zaccur, and Ibri. 
1CH  25\v 1 Moreover, David and the captains of the army set apart for the service certain of the sons of Asaph, and of Heman, and of Jeduthun, who were to prophesy with harps, with stringed instruments, and with cymbals. The number of those who did the work according to their service was: 
1CH  24\v 29 Of Kish, the son of Kish: Jerahmeel. 
1CH  25\v 3 Of Jeduthun, the sons of Jeduthun: Gedaliah, Zeri, Jeshaiah, Shimei, Hashabiah, and Mattithiah, six, under the hands of their father Jeduthun, who prophesied in giving thanks and praising Yahweh with the harp. 
1CH  25\v 31 These likewise cast lots even as their brothers the sons of Aaron in the presence of David the king, Zadok, Ahimelech, and the heads of the fathers’ households of the priests and of the Levites, the fathers’ households of the chief even as those of his younger brother. 
1CH  25\v 5 All these were the sons of Heman the king’s seer in the words of God, to lift up the horn. God gave to Heman fourteen sons and three daughters. 
1CH  25\v 1 Moreover, David and the captains of the army set apart for the service certain of the sons of Asaph, of Heman, and of Jeduthun, who were to prophesy with harps, with stringed instruments, and with cymbals. The number of those who did the work according to their service was: 
1CH  25\v 7 The number of them, with their brothers who were instructed in singing to Yahweh, even all who were skillful, was two hundred eighty-eight. 
1CH  25\v 3 Of Jeduthun, the sons of Jeduthun: Gedaliah, Zeri, Jeshaiah, Shimei, Hashabiah, and Mattithiah, six, under the hands of their father Jeduthun, who prophesied in giving thanks and praising Yahweh with the harp. 
1CH  25\v 9 Now the first lot came out for Asaph to Joseph; the second to Gedaliah, he and his brothers and sons were twelve; 
1CH  25\v 5 All these were the sons of Heman the king’s seer in the words of God, to lift up the horn. God gave to Heman fourteen sons and three daughters. 
1CH  25\v 11 the fourth to Izri, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
1CH  25\v 7 The number of them, with their brothers who were instructed in singing to Yahweh, even all who were skillful, was two hundred eighty-eight. 
1CH  25\v 13 the sixth to Bukkiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
1CH  25\v 9 Now the first lot came out for Asaph to Joseph; the second to Gedaliah, he and his brothers and sons were twelve; 
1CH  25\v 15 the eighth to Jeshaiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
1CH  25\v 11 the fourth to Izri, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
1CH  25\v 17 the tenth to Shimei, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
1CH  25\v 13 the sixth to Bukkiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
1CH  25\v 19 the twelfth to Hashabiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
1CH  25\v 15 the eighth to Jeshaiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
1CH  25\v 21 for the fourteenth, Mattithiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
1CH  25\v 17 the tenth to Shimei, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
1CH  25\v 23 for the sixteenth to Hananiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
1CH  25\v 19 the twelfth to Hashabiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
1CH  25\v 25 for the eighteenth to Hanani, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
1CH  25\v 21 for the fourteenth, Mattithiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
1CH  25\v 27 for the twentieth to Eliathah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
1CH  25\v 23 for the sixteenth to Hananiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
1CH  25\v 29 for the twenty-second to Giddalti, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
1CH  25\v 25 for the eighteenth to Hanani, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
1CH  26\v 31 for the twenty-fourth to Romamti-Ezer, his sons and his brothers, twelve. 
1CH  25\v 27 for the twentieth to Eliathah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
1CH  26\v 1 For the divisions of the doorkeepers: of the Korahites, Meshelemiah the son of Kore, of the sons of Asaph. 
1CH  25\v 29 for the twenty-second to Giddalti, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
1CH  26\v 3 Elam the fifth, Jehohanan the sixth, and Eliehoenai the seventh. 
1CH  26\v 31 for the twenty-fourth to Romamti-Ezer, his sons and his brothers, twelve. 
1CH  26\v 5 Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh, and Peullethai the eighth; for God blessed him. 
1CH  26\v 1 For the divisions of the doorkeepers: of the Korahites, Meshelemiah the son of Kore, of the sons of Asaph. 
1CH  26\v 7 The sons of Shemaiah: Othni, Rephael, Obed, and Elzabad, whose brothers were valiant men, Elihu, and Semachiah. 
1CH  26\v 3 Elam the fifth, Jehohanan the sixth, and Eliehoenai the seventh. 
1CH  26\v 9 Meshelemiah had sons and brothers, valiant men, eighteen. 
1CH  26\v 5 Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh, and Peullethai the eighth; for God blessed him. 
1CH  26\v 11 Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, and Zechariah the fourth. All the sons and brothers of Hosah were thirteen. 
1CH  26\v 7 The sons of Shemaiah: Othni, Rephael, Obed, and Elzabad, whose relatives were valiant men, Elihu, and Semachiah. 
1CH  26\v 13 They cast lots, the small as well as the great, according to their fathers’ houses, for every gate. 
1CH  26\v 9 Meshelemiah had sons and brothers, eighteen valiant men. 
1CH  26\v 15 To Obed-Edom southward; and to his sons the storehouse. 
1CH  26\v 11 Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, and Zechariah the fourth. All the sons and brothers of Hosah were thirteen. 
1CH  26\v 17 Eastward were six Levites, northward four a day, southward four a day, and for the storehouse two and two. 
1CH  26\v 13 They cast lots, the small as well as the great, according to their fathers’ houses, for every gate. 
1CH  26\v 19 These were the divisions of the doorkeepers; of the sons of the Korahites, and of the sons of Merari. 
1CH  26\v 15 To Obed-Edom southward; and to his sons the storehouse. 
1CH  26\v 21 The sons of Ladan, the sons of the Gershonites belonging to Ladan, the heads of the fathers’ households belonging to Ladan the Gershonite: Jehieli. 
1CH  26\v 17 Eastward were six Levites, northward four a day, southward four a day, and for the storehouse two and two. 
1CH  26\v 23 Of the Amramites, of the Izharites, of the Hebronites, of the Uzzielites: 
1CH  26\v 19 These were the divisions of the doorkeepers; of the sons of the Korahites, and of the sons of Merari. 
1CH  26\v 25 His brothers: of Eliezer, Rehabiah his son, and Jeshaiah his son, and Joram his son, and Zichri his son, and Shelomoth his son. 
1CH  26\v 21 The sons of Ladan, the sons of the Gershonites belonging to Ladan, the heads of the fathers’ households belonging to Ladan the Gershonite: Jehieli. 
1CH  26\v 27 They dedicated some of the plunder won in battles to repair Yahweh’s house. 
1CH  26\v 23 Of the Amramites, of the Izharites, of the Hebronites, of the Uzzielites: 
1CH  26\v 29 Of the Izharites, Chenaniah and his sons were for the outward business over Israel, for officers and judges. 
1CH  26\v 25 His brothers: of Eliezer, Rehabiah his son, and Jeshaiah his son, and Joram his son, and Zichri his son, and Shelomoth his son. 
1CH  26\v 31 Of the Hebronites, Jerijah was the chief, even of the Hebronites, according to their generations by fathers’ households. They were sought for in the fortieth year of the reign of David, and mighty men of valor were found among them at Jazer of Gilead. 
1CH  26\v 27 They dedicated some of the plunder won in battles to repair Yahweh’s house. 
1CH  271CH  26\v 29 Of the Izharites, Chenaniah and his sons were appointed to the outward business over Israel, for officers and judges. 
1CH  27\v 1 Now the children of Israel after their number, the heads of fathers’ households and the captains of thousands and of hundreds, and their officers who served the king, in any matter of the divisions which came in and went out month by month throughout all the months of the year—of every division were twenty-four thousand. 
1CH  26\v 31 Of the Hebronites, Jerijah was the chief of the Hebronites, according to their generations by fathers’ households. They were sought for in the fortieth year of the reign of David, and mighty men of valor were found among them at Jazer of Gilead. 
1CH  27\v 3 He was of the children of Perez, the chief of all the captains of the army for the first month. 
1CH  271CH  27\v 5 The third captain of the army for the third month was Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada the chief priest. In his division were twenty-four thousand. 
1CH  27\v 1 Now the children of Israel after their number, the heads of fathers’ households and the captains of thousands and of hundreds, and their officers who served the king in any matter of the divisions which came in and went out month by month throughout all the months of the year—of every division were twenty-four thousand. 
1CH  27\v 7 The fourth captain for the fourth month was Asahel the brother of Joab, and Zebadiah his son after him: and in his division were twenty-four thousand. 
1CH  27\v 3 He was of the children of Perez, the chief of all the captains of the army for the first month. 
1CH  27\v 9 The sixth captain for the sixth month was Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite: and in his division were twenty-four thousand. 
1CH  27\v 5 The third captain of the army for the third month was Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada the chief priest. In his division were twenty-four thousand. 
1CH  27\v 11 The eighth captain for the eighth month was Sibbecai the Hushathite, of the Zerahites. In his division were twenty-four thousand. 
1CH  27\v 7 The fourth captain for the fourth month was Asahel the brother of Joab, and Zebadiah his son after him. In his division were twenty-four thousand. 
1CH  27\v 13 The tenth captain for the tenth month was Maharai the Netophathite, of the Zerahites. In his division were twenty-four thousand. 
1CH  27\v 9 The sixth captain for the sixth month was Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite. In his division were twenty-four thousand. 
1CH  27\v 15 The twelfth captain for the twelfth month was Heldai the Netophathite, of Othniel. In his division were twenty-four thousand. 
1CH  27\v 11 The eighth captain for the eighth month was Sibbecai the Hushathite, of the Zerahites. In his division were twenty-four thousand. 
1CH  27\v 17 of Levi, Hashabiah the son of Kemuel; of Aaron, Zadok; 
1CH  27\v 13 The tenth captain for the tenth month was Maharai the Netophathite, of the Zerahites. In his division were twenty-four thousand. 
1CH  27\v 19 of Zebulun, Ishmaiah the son of Obadiah; of Naphtali, Jeremoth the son of Azriel; 
1CH  27\v 15 The twelfth captain for the twelfth month was Heldai the Netophathite, of Othniel. In his division were twenty-four thousand. 
1CH  27\v 21 of the half-tribe of Manasseh in Gilead, Iddo the son of Zechariah; of Benjamin, Jaasiel the son of Abner; 
1CH  27\v 17 of Levi, Hashabiah the son of Kemuel; of Aaron, Zadok; 
1CH  27\v 23 But David didn’t take the number of them from twenty years old and under, because Yahweh had said he would increase Israel like the stars of the sky. 
1CH  27\v 19 of Zebulun, Ishmaiah the son of Obadiah; of Naphtali, Jeremoth the son of Azriel; 
1CH  27\v 25 Over the king’s treasures was Azmaveth the son of Adiel: and over the treasures in the fields, in the cities, and in the villages, and in the towers, was Jonathan the son of Uzziah; 
1CH  27\v 21 of the half-tribe of Manasseh in Gilead, Iddo the son of Zechariah; of Benjamin, Jaasiel the son of Abner; 
1CH  27\v 27 and over the vineyards was Shimei the Ramathite; and over the increase of the vineyards for the wine cellars was Zabdi the Shiphmite; 
1CH  27\v 23 But David didn’t take the number of them from twenty years old and under, because Yahweh had said he would increase Israel like the stars of the sky. 
1CH  27\v 29 and over the herds that fed in Sharon was Shitrai the Sharonite; and over the herds that were in the valleys was Shaphat the son of Adlai; 
1CH  27\v 25 Over the king’s treasures was Azmaveth the son of Adiel. Over the treasures in the fields, in the cities, in the villages, and in the towers was Jonathan the son of Uzziah; 
1CH  27\v 31 All these were the rulers of the property which was king David’s. 
1CH  27\v 27 Over the vineyards was Shimei the Ramathite. Over the increase of the vineyards for the wine cellars was Zabdi the Shiphmite. 
1CH  27\v 33 Ahithophel was the king’s counselor. Hushai the Archite was the king’s friend. 
1CH  27\v 29 Over the herds that fed in Sharon was Shitrai the Sharonite. Over the herds that were in the valleys was Shaphat the son of Adlai. 
1CH  281CH  27\v 31 All these were the rulers of the property which was king David’s. 
1CH  28\v 1 David assembled all the princes of Israel, the princes of the tribes, the captains of the companies who served the king by division, the captains of thousands, the captains of hundreds, and the rulers over all the substance and possessions of the king and of his sons, with the officers and the mighty men, even all the mighty men of valor, to Jerusalem. 
1CH  27\v 33 Ahithophel was the king’s counselor. Hushai the Archite was the king’s friend. 
1CH  28\v 3 But God said to me, ‘You shall not build a house for my name, because you are a man of war, and have shed blood.’ 
1CH  281CH  28\v 5 Of all my sons (for Yahweh has given me many sons), he has chosen Solomon my son to sit on the throne of Yahweh’s kingdom over Israel. 
1CH  28\v 1 David assembled all the princes of Israel, the princes of the tribes, the captains of the companies who served the king by division, the captains of thousands, the captains of hundreds, and the rulers over all the substance and possessions of the king and of his sons, with the officers and the mighty men, even all the mighty men of valor, to Jerusalem. 
1CH  28\v 7 I will establish his kingdom forever if he continues to do my commandments and my ordinances, as it is today.’ 
1CH  28\v 3 But God said to me, ‘You shall not build a house for my name, because you are a man of war and have shed blood.’ 
1CH  28\v 9 You, Solomon my son, know the God of your father, and serve him with a perfect heart and with a willing mind; for Yahweh searches all hearts, and understands all the imaginations of the thoughts. If you seek him, he will be found by you; but if you forsake him, he will cast you off forever. 
1CH  28\v 5 Of all my sons (for Yahweh has given me many sons), he has chosen Solomon my son to sit on the throne of Yahweh’s kingdom over Israel. 
1CH  28\v 11 Then David gave to Solomon his son the plans for the porch of the temple, for its houses, for its treasuries, for its upper rooms, for its inner rooms, for the place of the mercy seat; 
1CH  28\v 7 I will establish his kingdom forever if he continues to do my commandments and my ordinances, as it is today.’ 
1CH  28\v 13 also for the divisions of the priests and the Levites, for all the work of the service of Yahweh’s house, and for all the vessels of service in Yahweh’s house; 
1CH  28\v 9 You, Solomon my son, know the God of your father, and serve him with a perfect heart and with a willing mind; for Yahweh searches all hearts, and understands all the imaginations of the thoughts. If you seek him, he will be found by you; but if you forsake him, he will cast you off forever. 
1CH  28\v 15 by weight also for the lamp stands of gold, and for its lamps, of gold, by weight for every lamp stand and for its lamps; and for the lamp stands of silver, by weight for every lamp stand and for its lamps, according to the use of every lamp stand; 
1CH  28\v 11 Then David gave to Solomon his son the plans for the porch of the temple, for its houses, for its treasuries, for its upper rooms, for its inner rooms, for the place of the mercy seat; 
1CH  28\v 17 and the forks, the basins, and the cups, of pure gold; and for the golden bowls by weight for every bowl; and for the silver bowls by weight for every bowl; 
1CH  28\v 13 also for the divisions of the priests and the Levites, for all the work of the service of Yahweh’s house, and for all the vessels of service in Yahweh’s house— 
1CH  28\v 19 “All this”, David said, “I have been made to understand in writing from Yahweh’s hand, even all the works of this pattern.” 
1CH  28\v 15 by weight also for the lamp stands of gold, and for its lamps, of gold, by weight for every lamp stand and for its lamps; and for the lamp stands of silver, by weight for every lamp stand and for its lamps, according to the use of every lamp stand; 
1CH  29\v 21 Behold, there are the divisions of the priests and the Levites, for all the service of God’s house. Every willing man who has skill, for any kind of service, shall be with you in all kinds of work. Also the captains and all the people will be entirely at your command.” 
1CH  28\v 17 and the forks, the basins, and the cups, of pure gold; and for the golden bowls by weight for every bowl; and for the silver bowls by weight for every bowl; 
1CH  29\v 1 David the king said to all the assembly, “Solomon my son, whom alone God has chosen, is yet young and tender, and the work is great; for the palace is not for man, but for Yahweh God. 
1CH  28\v 19 “All this”, David said, “I have been made to understand in writing from Yahweh’s hand, even all the works of this pattern.” 
1CH  29\v 3 In addition, because I have set my affection on the house of my God, since I have a treasure of my own of gold and silver, I give it to the house of my God, over and above all that I have prepared for the holy house, 
1CH  29\v 21 Behold, there are the divisions of the priests and the Levites for all the service of God’s house. Every willing man who has skill for any kind of service shall be with you in all kinds of work. Also the captains and all the people will be entirely at your command.” 
1CH  29\v 5 of gold for the things of gold, and of silver for the things of silver, and for all kinds of work to be made by the hands of artisans. Who then offers willingly to consecrate himself today to Yahweh?” 
1CH  29\v 1 David the king said to all the assembly, “Solomon my son, whom alone God has chosen, is yet young and tender, and the work is great; for the palace is not for man, but for Yahweh God. 
1CH  29\v 7 and they gave for the service of God’s house of gold five thousand talents\f + \fr 29:7  \ft A talent is about 30 kilograms or 66 pounds or 965 Troy ounces, so 5000 talents is about 150 metric tons\f* and ten thousand darics,\f + \fr 29:7  \ft a daric was a gold coin issued by a Persian king, weighing about 8.4 grams or about 0.27 troy ounces each.\f* of silver ten thousand talents, of bronze eighteen thousand talents, and of iron one hundred thousand talents. 
1CH  29\v 3 In addition, because I have set my affection on the house of my God, since I have a treasure of my own of gold and silver, I give it to the house of my God, over and above all that I have prepared for the holy house: 
1CH  29\v 9 Then the people rejoiced, because they offered willingly, because with a perfect heart they offered willingly to Yahweh; and David the king also rejoiced with great joy. 
1CH  29\v 5 of gold for the things of gold, and of silver for the things of silver, and for all kinds of work to be made by the hands of artisans. Who then offers willingly to consecrate himself today to Yahweh?” 
1CH  29\v 11 Yours, Yahweh, is the greatness, the power, the glory, the victory, and the majesty! For all that is in the heavens and in the earth is yours. Yours is the kingdom, Yahweh, and you are exalted as head above all. 
1CH  29\v 7 and they gave for the service of God’s house of gold five thousand talents\f + \fr 29:7  \ft A talent is about 30 kilograms or 66 pounds or 965 Troy ounces, so 5000 talents is about 150 metric tons\f* and ten thousand darics,\f + \fr 29:7  \ft a daric was a gold coin issued by a Persian king, weighing about 8.4 grams or about 0.27 troy ounces each.\f* of silver ten thousand talents, of bronze eighteen thousand talents, and of iron one hundred thousand talents. 
1CH  29\v 13 Now therefore, our God, we thank you, and praise your glorious name. 
1CH  29\v 9 Then the people rejoiced, because they offered willingly, because with a perfect heart they offered willingly to Yahweh; and David the king also rejoiced with great joy. 
1CH  29\v 15 For we are strangers before you, and foreigners, as all our fathers were. Our days on the earth are as a shadow, and there is no remaining. 
1CH  29\v 11 Yours, Yahweh, is the greatness, the power, the glory, the victory, and the majesty! For all that is in the heavens and in the earth is yours. Yours is the kingdom, Yahweh, and you are exalted as head above all. 
1CH  29\v 17 I know also, my God, that you try the heart, and have pleasure in uprightness. As for me, in the uprightness of my heart I have willingly offered all these things. Now I have seen with joy your people, who are present here, offer willingly to you. 
1CH  29\v 13 Now therefore, our God, we thank you and praise your glorious name. 
1CH  29\v 19 and give to Solomon my son a perfect heart, to keep your commandments, your testimonies, and your statutes, and to do all these things, and to build the palace, for which I have made provision.” 
1CH  29\v 15 For we are strangers before you and foreigners, as all our fathers were. Our days on the earth are as a shadow, and there is no remaining. 
1CH  29\v 21 They sacrificed sacrifices to Yahweh, and offered burnt offerings to Yahweh, on the next day after that day, even one thousand bulls, one thousand rams, and one thousand lambs, with their drink offerings and sacrifices in abundance for all Israel, 
1CH  29\v 17 I know also, my God, that you try the heart and have pleasure in uprightness. As for me, in the uprightness of my heart I have willingly offered all these things. Now I have seen with joy your people, who are present here, offer willingly to you. 
1CH  29\v 23 Then Solomon sat on the throne of Yahweh as king instead of David his father, and prospered; and all Israel obeyed him. 
1CH  29\v 19 and give to Solomon my son a perfect heart, to keep your commandments, your testimonies, and your statutes, and to do all these things, and to build the palace, for which I have made provision.” 
1CH  29\v 25 Yahweh magnified Solomon exceedingly in the sight of all Israel, and gave to him such royal majesty as had not been on any king before him in Israel. 
1CH  29\v 21 They sacrificed sacrifices to Yahweh and offered burnt offerings to Yahweh on the next day after that day, even one thousand bulls, one thousand rams, and one thousand lambs, with their drink offerings and sacrifices in abundance for all Israel, 
1CH  29\v 27 The time that he reigned over Israel was forty years; he reigned seven years in Hebron, and he reigned thirty-three years in Jerusalem. 
1CH  29\v 23 Then Solomon sat on the throne of Yahweh as king instead of David his father, and prospered; and all Israel obeyed him. 
1CH  29\v 29 Now the acts of David the king, first and last, behold, they are written in the history of Samuel the seer, and in the history of Nathan the prophet, and in the history of Gad the seer, 
1CH  29\v 25 Yahweh magnified Solomon exceedingly in the sight of all Israel, and gave to him such royal majesty as had not been on any king before him in Israel. 
1CH  29\v 30 with all his reign and his might, and the times that went over him, and over Israel, and over all the kingdoms of the countries. 1CH  29\v 27 The time that he reigned over Israel was forty years; he reigned seven years in Hebron, and he reigned thirty-three years in Jerusalem. 
2CH   1\v 3 So Solomon, and all the assembly with him, went to the high place that was at Gibeon; for God’s Tent of Meeting was there, which Yahweh’s servant Moses had made in the wilderness. 
2CH   1\v 3 Then Solomon, and all the assembly with him, went to the high place that was at Gibeon; for God’s Tent of Meeting was there, which Yahweh’s servant Moses had made in the wilderness. 
2CH   2\v 17 They brought up and brought out of Egypt a chariot for six hundred pieces of silver, and a horse for one hundred fifty.\f + \fr 1:17  \ft The pieces of silver were probably shekels, so 600 pieces would be about 13.2 pounds or 6 kilograms of silver, and 150 would be about 3.3 pounds or 1.5 kilograms of silver.\f* They also exported them to the Hittite kings and the Syrian\f + \fr 1:17  \ft or, Aramean\f* kings. 
2CH   2\v 17 They imported from Egypt then exported a chariot for six hundred pieces of silver and a horse for one hundred fifty.\f + \fr 1:17  \ft The pieces of silver were probably shekels, so 600 pieces would be about 13.2 pounds or 6 kilograms of silver, and 150 would be about 3.3 pounds or 1.5 kilograms of silver.\f* They also exported them to the Hittite kings and the Syrian\f + \fr 1:17  \ft or, Aramean\f* kings. 
2CH   2\v 5 “The house which I am building will be great; for our God is greater than all gods. 
2CH   2\v 5 “The house which I am building will be great, for our God is greater than all gods. 
2CH   2\v 15 “Now therefore the wheat, the barley, the oil, and the wine, which my lord has spoken of, let him send to his servants; 
2CH   2\v 15 “Now therefore, the wheat, the barley, the oil, and the wine which my lord has spoken of, let him send to his servants; 
2CH   3\v 3 Now these are the foundations which Solomon laid for the building of God’s house. The length by cubits\f + \fr 3:3  \ft A cubit is the length from the tip of the middle finger to the elbow on a man’s arm, or about 18 inches or 46 centimeters.\f* after the first measure was sixty cubits, and the width twenty cubits. 
2CH   3\v 3 Now these are the foundations which Solomon laid for the building of God’s house: the length by cubits\f + \fr 3:3  \ft A cubit is the length from the tip of the middle finger to the elbow on a man’s arm, or about 18 inches or 46 centimeters.\f* after the first measure was sixty cubits, and the width twenty cubits. 
2CH   3\v 7 He also overlaid the house, the beams, the thresholds, its walls, and its doors with gold; and engraved cherubim on the walls. 
2CH   3\v 7 He also overlaid the house, the beams, the thresholds, its walls, and its doors with gold, and engraved cherubim on the walls. 
2CH   3\v 15 Also he made before the house two pillars of thirty-five cubits height, and the capital that was on the top of each of them was five cubits. 
2CH   3\v 15 Also he made before the house two pillars thirty-five cubits heigh, and the capital that was on the top of each of them was five cubits. 
2CH   4\v 17 He set up the pillars before the temple, one on the right hand, and the other on the left; and called the name of that on the right hand Jachin, and the name of that on the left Boaz. 
2CH   4\v 17 He set up the pillars before the temple, one on the right hand and the other on the left; and called the name of that on the right hand Jachin, and the name of that on the left Boaz. 
2CH   4\v 5 It was a handbreadth thick; and its brim was made like the brim of a cup, like the flower of a lily. It received and held three thousand baths.\f + \fr 4:5  \ft A bath is about 5.6 U. S. gallons or 21.1 liters, so 3,000 baths is about 16,800 gallons or 63.3 kiloliters.\f* 
2CH   4\v 5 It was a handbreadth thick. Its brim was made like the brim of a cup, like the flower of a lily. It received and held three thousand baths.\f + \fr 4:5  \ft A bath is about 5.6 U. S. gallons or 21.1 liters, so 3,000 baths is about 16,800 gallons or 63.3 kiloliters.\f* 
2CH   4\v 7 He made the ten lamp stands of gold according to the ordinance concerning them; and he set them in the temple, five on the right hand, and five on the left. 
2CH   4\v 7 He made the ten lamp stands of gold according to the ordinance concerning them; and he set them in the temple, five on the right hand and five on the left. 
2CH   4\v 13 and the four hundred pomegranates for the two networks; two rows of pomegranates for each network, to cover the two bowls of the capitals that were on the pillars. 
2CH   4\v 13 and the four hundred pomegranates for the two networks—two rows of pomegranates for each network, to cover the two bowls of the capitals that were on the pillars. 
2CH   4\v 19 Solomon made all the vessels that were in God’s house, the golden altar also, and the tables with the show bread on them; 
2CH   4\v 19 Solomon made all the vessels that were in God’s house: the golden altar, the tables with the show bread on them, 
2CH   4\v 21 and the flowers, the lamps, and the tongs of gold that was perfect gold; 
2CH   4\v 21 and the flowers, the lamps, and the tongs of gold that was purest gold; 
2CH   5\v 5 and they brought up the ark, the Tent of Meeting, and all the holy vessels that were in the Tent; these the Levitical priests brought up. 
2CH   5\v 5 They brought up the ark, the Tent of Meeting, and all the holy vessels that were in the Tent. The Levitical priests brought these up. 
2CH   5\v 9 The poles were so long that the ends of the poles were seen from the ark in front of the inner sanctuary; but they were not seen outside; and it is there to this day. 
2CH   5\v 9 The poles were so long that the ends of the poles were seen from the ark in front of the inner sanctuary, but they were not seen outside; and it is there to this day. 
2CH   6\v 3 The king turned his face, and blessed all the assembly of Israel: and all the assembly of Israel stood. 
2CH   6\v 3 The king turned his face, and blessed all the assembly of Israel; and all the assembly of Israel stood. 
2CH   6\v 5 ‘Since the day that I brought my people out of the land of Egypt, I chose no city out of all the tribes of Israel to build a house in, that my name might be there and I chose no man to be prince over my people Israel; 
2CH   6\v 5 ‘Since the day that I brought my people out of the land of Egypt, I chose no city out of all the tribes of Israel to build a house in, that my name might be there, and I chose no man to be prince over my people Israel; 
2CH   6\v 9 nevertheless you shall not build the house; but your son who will come out of your body, he shall build the house for my name.’ 
2CH   6\v 9 nevertheless you shall not build the house, but your son who will come out of your body, he shall build the house for my name.’ 
2CH   6\v 13 (for Solomon had made a bronze platform, five cubits\f + \fr 6:13  \ft A cubit is the length from the tip of the middle finger to the elbow on a man’s arm, or about 18 inches or 46 centimeters.\f* long, and five cubits wide, and three cubits high, and had set it in the middle of the court; and he stood on it, and knelt down on his knees before all the assembly of Israel, and spread out his hands toward heaven) 
2CH   6\v 13 (for Solomon had made a bronze platform, five cubits\f + \fr 6:13  \ft A cubit is the length from the tip of the middle finger to the elbow on a man’s arm, or about 18 inches or 46 centimeters.\f* long, five cubits wide, and three cubits high, and had set it in the middle of the court; and he stood on it, and knelt down on his knees before all the assembly of Israel, and spread out his hands toward heaven). 
2CH   6\v 19 Yet have respect for the prayer of your servant, and to his supplication, Yahweh my God, to listen to the cry and to the prayer which your servant prays before you; 
2CH   6\v 19 Yet have respect for the prayer of your servant and to his supplication, Yahweh my God, to listen to the cry and to the prayer which your servant prays before you; 
2CH   6\v 21 Listen to the petitions of your servant, and of your people Israel, when they pray toward this place. Yes, hear from your dwelling place, even from heaven; and when you hear, forgive. 
2CH   6\v 21 Listen to the petitions of your servant and of your people Israel, when they pray toward this place. Yes, hear from your dwelling place, even from heaven; and when you hear, forgive. 
2CH   6\v 27 then hear in heaven, and forgive the sin of your servants of your people Israel, when you teach them the good way in which they should walk; and send rain on your land, which you have given to your people for an inheritance. 
2CH   6\v 27 then hear in heaven, and forgive the sin of your servants, your people Israel, when you teach them the good way in which they should walk, and send rain on your land, which you have given to your people for an inheritance. 
2CH   6\v 29 whatever prayer and supplication is made by any man, or by all your people Israel, who will each know his own plague and his own sorrow, and shall spread out his hands toward this house; 
2CH   6\v 29 whatever prayer and supplication is made by any man, or by all your people Israel, who will each know his own plague and his own sorrow, and shall spread out his hands toward this house, 
2CH   6\v 31 that they may fear you, to walk in your ways, so long as they live in the land which you gave to our fathers. 
2CH   6\v 31 that they may fear you, to walk in your ways as long as they live in the land which you gave to our fathers. 
2CH   7\v 7 Moreover Solomon made the middle of the court that was before Yahweh’s house holy; for there he offered the burnt offerings, and the fat of the peace offerings, because the bronze altar which Solomon had made was not able to receive the burnt offering, the meal offering, and the fat. 
2CH   7\v 7 Moreover Solomon made the middle of the court that was before Yahweh’s house holy; for there he offered the burnt offerings and the fat of the peace offerings, because the bronze altar which Solomon had made was not able to receive the burnt offering, the meal offering, and the fat. 
2CH   7\v 13 “If I shut up the sky so that there is no rain, or if I command the locust to devour the land, or if I send pestilence among my people; 
2CH   7\v 13 “If I shut up the sky so that there is no rain, or if I command the locust to devour the land, or if I send pestilence among my people, 
2CH   7\v 17 “As for you, if you will walk before me as David your father walked, and do according to all that I have commanded you, and will keep my statutes and my ordinances; 
2CH   7\v 17 “As for you, if you will walk before me as David your father walked, and do according to all that I have commanded you, and will keep my statutes and my ordinances, 
2CH   7\v 19 But if you turn away, and forsake my statutes and my commandments which I have set before you, and shall go and serve other gods, and worship them; 
2CH   7\v 19 But if you turn away and forsake my statutes and my commandments which I have set before you, and go and serve other gods and worship them, 
2CH   7\v 21 This house, which is so high, everyone who passes by it shall be astonished, and shall say, ‘Why has Yahweh done this to this land and to this house?’ 
2CH   7\v 21 This house, which is so high, everyone who passes by it will be astonished and say, ‘Why has Yahweh done this to this land and to this house?’ 
2CH   8\v 5 Also he built Beth Horon the upper and Beth Horon the lower, fortified cities, with walls, gates, and bars; 
2CH   8\v 5 Also he built Beth Horon the upper and Beth Horon the lower, fortified cities with walls, gates, and bars; 
2CH   8\v 7 As for all the people who were left of the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites, who were not of Israel; 
2CH   8\v 7 As for all the people who were left of the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites, who were not of Israel— 
2CH   8\v 9 But of the children of Israel, Solomon made no servants for his work; but they were men of war, and chief of his captains, and rulers of his chariots and of his horsemen. 
2CH   8\v 9 But of the children of Israel, Solomon made no servants for his work, but they were men of war, chief of his captains, and rulers of his chariots and of his horsemen. 
2CH   8\v 13 even as the duty of every day required, offering according to the commandment of Moses, on the Sabbaths, on the new moons, and on the set feasts, three times per year, during the feast of unleavened bread, during the feast of weeks, and during the feast of booths.\f + \fr 8:13  \ft or, feast of tents (Sukkot)\f* 
2CH   8\v 13 even as the duty of every day required, offering according to the commandment of Moses on the Sabbaths, on the new moons, and on the set feasts, three times per year, during the feast of unleavened bread, during the feast of weeks, and during the feast of booths.\f + \fr 8:13  \ft or, feast of tents (Sukkot)\f* 
2CH   8\v 15 They didn’t depart from the commandment of the king to the priests and Levites concerning any matter, or concerning the treasures. 
2CH   8\v 15 They didn’t depart from the commandment of the king to the priests and Levites concerning any matter or concerning the treasures. 
2CH   9\v 7 Happy are your men, and happy are these your servants, who stand continually before you, and hear your wisdom. 
2CH   9\v 7 Happy are your men, and happy are these your servants, who stand continually before you and hear your wisdom. 
2CH   9\v 15 King Solomon made two hundred bucklers of beaten gold. Six hundred shekels\f + \fr 9:15  \ft A shekel is about 10 grams or about 0.32 Troy ounces, so 600 shekels was about 6 kilograms or about 192 Troy ounces.\f* of beaten gold went to one buckler. 
2CH   9\v 15 King Solomon made two hundred large shields of beaten gold. Six hundred shekels\f + \fr 9:15  \ft A shekel is about 10 grams or about 0.32 Troy ounces, so 600 shekels was about 6 kilograms or about 192 Troy ounces.\f* of beaten gold went to one large shield. 
2CH   9\v 23 All the kings of the earth sought the presence of Solomon, to hear his wisdom, which God had put in his heart. 
2CH   9\v 23 All the kings of the earth sought the presence of Solomon to hear his wisdom, which God had put in his heart. 
2CH   9\v 25 Solomon had four thousand stalls for horses and chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen, that he stationed in the chariot cities, and with the king at Jerusalem. 
2CH   9\v 25 Solomon had four thousand stalls for horses and chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen that he stationed in the chariot cities and with the king at Jerusalem. 
2CH  10\v 31 Solomon slept with his fathers, and he was buried in his father David’s city: and Rehoboam his son reigned in his place. 
2CH  10\v 31 Solomon slept with his fathers, and he was buried in his father David’s city; and Rehoboam his son reigned in his place. 
2CH  10\v 1 Rehoboam went to Shechem; for all Israel had come to Shechem to make him king. 
2CH  10\v 1 Rehoboam went to Shechem, for all Israel had come to Shechem to make him king. 
2CH  11\v 11 He fortified the strongholds, and put captains in them, and stores of food, oil and wine. 
2CH  11\v 11 He fortified the strongholds and put captains in them with stores of food, oil and wine. 
2CH  11\v 15 He himself appointed priests for the high places, for the male goats, and for the calves which he had made. 
2CH  11\v 15 He himself appointed priests for the high places, for the male goat and calf idols which he had made. 
2CH  11\v 17 So they strengthened the kingdom of Judah, and made Rehoboam the son of Solomon strong for three years; for they walked three years in the way of David and Solomon. 
2CH  11\v 17 So they strengthened the kingdom of Judah and made Rehoboam the son of Solomon strong for three years, for they walked three years in the way of David and Solomon. 
2CH  11\v 21 Rehoboam loved Maacah the daughter of Absalom above all his wives and his concubines; for he took eighteen wives and sixty concubines, and became the father of twenty-eight sons and sixty daughters. 
2CH  11\v 21 Rehoboam loved Maacah the granddaughter of Absalom above all his wives and his concubines; for he took eighteen wives and sixty concubines, and became the father of twenty-eight sons and sixty daughters. 
2CH  12\v 23 He dealt wisely, and dispersed of all his sons throughout all the lands of Judah and Benjamin, to every fortified city. He gave them food in abundance and he sought many wives for them. 
2CH  12\v 23 He dealt wisely, and dispersed some of his sons throughout all the lands of Judah and Benjamin, to every fortified city. He gave them food in abundance; and he sought many wives for them. 
2CH  12\v 3 with twelve hundred chariots, and sixty thousand horsemen. The people were without number who came with him out of Egypt: the Lubim, the Sukkiim, and the Ethiopians. 
2CH  12\v 3 with twelve hundred chariots and sixty thousand horsemen. The people were without number who came with him out of Egypt: the Lubim, the Sukkiim, and the Ethiopians. 
2CH  12\v 5 Now Shemaiah the prophet came to Rehoboam, and to the princes of Judah, who were gathered together to Jerusalem because of Shishak, and said to them, “Yahweh says, ‘You have forsaken me, therefore I have also left you in the hand of Shishak.’” 
2CH  12\v 5 Now Shemaiah the prophet came to Rehoboam and to the princes of Judah, who were gathered together to Jerusalem because of Shishak, and said to them, “Yahweh says, ‘You have forsaken me, therefore I have also left you in the hand of Shishak.’” 
2CH  12\v 7 When Yahweh saw that they humbled themselves, Yahweh’s word came to Shemaiah, saying, “They have humbled themselves. I will not destroy them; but I will grant them some deliverance, and my wrath won’t be poured out on Jerusalem by the hand of Shishak. 
2CH  12\v 7 When Yahweh saw that they humbled themselves, Yahweh’s word came to Shemaiah, saying, “They have humbled themselves. I will not destroy them, but I will grant them some deliverance, and my wrath won’t be poured out on Jerusalem by the hand of Shishak. 
2CH  13\v 11 and they burn to Yahweh every morning and every evening burnt offerings and sweet incense. They also set the show bread in order on the pure table; and the lamp stand of gold with its lamps, to burn every evening; for we keep the instruction of Yahweh our God, but you have forsaken him. 
2CH  13\v 11 They burn to Yahweh every morning and every evening burnt offerings and sweet incense. They also set the show bread in order on the pure table, and care for the gold lamp stand with its lamps, to burn every evening; for we keep the instruction of Yahweh our God, but you have forsaken him. 
2CH  13\v 19 Abijah pursued Jeroboam, and took cities from him, Bethel with its villages, Jeshanah with its villages, and Ephron with its villages. 
2CH  13\v 19 Abijah pursued Jeroboam, and took cities from him: Bethel with its villages, Jeshanah with its villages, and Ephron with its villages. 
2CH  13\v 21 But Abijah grew mighty, and took for himself fourteen wives, and became the father of twenty-two sons and sixteen daughters. 
2CH  13\v 21 But Abijah grew mighty and took for himself fourteen wives, and became the father of twenty-two sons and sixteen daughters. 
2CH  14\v 7 For he said to Judah, “Let’s build these cities, and make walls around them, with towers, gates, and bars. The land is yet before us, because we have sought Yahweh our God. We have sought him, and he has given us rest on every side.” So they built and prospered. 
2CH  14\v 7 For he said to Judah, “Let’s build these cities and make walls around them, with towers, gates, and bars. The land is yet before us, because we have sought Yahweh our God. We have sought him, and he has given us rest on every side.” So they built and prospered. 
2CH  14\v 13 Asa and the people who were with him pursued them to Gerar: and so many of the Ethiopians fell that they could not recover themselves; for they were destroyed before Yahweh and before his army; and they carried away very much booty. 
2CH  14\v 13 Asa and the people who were with him pursued them to Gerar. So many of the Ethiopians fell that they could not recover themselves, for they were destroyed before Yahweh and before his army. Judah’s army carried away very much booty. 
2CH  15\v 15 They also struck the tents of livestock, and carried away sheep in abundance, and camels, and returned to Jerusalem. 
2CH  15\v 15 They also struck the tents of those who had livestock, and carried away sheep and camels in abundance, then returned to Jerusalem. 
2CH  15\v 1 The Spirit of God came on Azariah the son of Oded: 
2CH  15\v 1 The Spirit of God came on Azariah the son of Oded. 
2CH  15\v 7 But you be strong, and don’t let your hands be slack; for your work will be rewarded.” 
2CH  15\v 7 But you be strong! Don’t let your hands be slack, for your work will be rewarded.” 
2CH  15\v 15 All Judah rejoiced at the oath, for they had sworn with all their heart, and sought him with their whole desire; and he was found by them. Then Yahweh gave them rest all around. 
2CH  15\v 15 All Judah rejoiced at the oath, for they had sworn with all their heart and sought him with their whole desire; and he was found by them. Then Yahweh gave them rest all around. 
2CH  17\v 11 Some of the Philistines brought Jehoshaphat presents and silver for tribute. The Arabians also brought him flocks, seven thousand seven hundred rams, and seven thousand seven hundred male goats. 
2CH  17\v 11 Some of the Philistines brought Jehoshaphat presents and silver for tribute. The Arabians also brought him flocks: seven thousand seven hundred rams and seven thousand seven hundred male goats. 
2CH  18\v 33 A certain man drew his bow at random, and struck the king of Israel between the joints of the armor. Therefore he said to the driver of the chariot, “Turn your hand, and carry me out of the army; for I am severely wounded.” 
2CH  18\v 33 A certain man drew his bow at random, and struck the king of Israel between the joints of the armor. Therefore he said to the driver of the chariot, “Turn around and carry me out of the battle, for I am severely wounded.” 
2CH  20\v 21 When he had taken counsel with the people, he appointed those who were to sing to Yahweh, and give praise in holy array, as they go out before the army, and say, “Give thanks to Yahweh; for his loving kindness endures forever.” 
2CH  20\v 21 When he had taken counsel with the people, he appointed those who were to sing to Yahweh and give praise in holy array as they go out before the army, and say, “Give thanks to Yahweh, for his loving kindness endures forever.” 
2CH  20\v 25 When Jehoshaphat and his people came to take their plunder, they found among them in abundance both riches and dead bodies, and precious jewels, which they stripped off for themselves, more than they could carry away. They took plunder for three days, it was so much. 
2CH  20\v 25 When Jehoshaphat and his people came to take their plunder, they found among them in abundance both riches and dead bodies with precious jewels, which they stripped off for themselves, more than they could carry away. They took plunder for three days, it was so much. 
2CH  20\v 29 The fear of God was on all the kingdoms of the countries, when they heard that Yahweh fought against the enemies of Israel. 
2CH  20\v 29 The fear of God was on all the kingdoms of the countries when they heard that Yahweh fought against the enemies of Israel. 
2CH  20\v 31 Jehoshaphat reigned over Judah. He was thirty-five years old when he began to reign; and he reigned twenty-five years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Azubah the daughter of Shilhi. 
2CH  20\v 31 So Jehoshaphat reigned over Judah. He was thirty-five years old when he began to reign. He reigned twenty-five years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Azubah the daughter of Shilhi. 
2CH  21\v 1 Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in David’s city, and Jehoram his son reigned in his place. 
2CH  21\v 1 Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in David’s city; and Jehoram his son reigned in his place. 
2CH  21\v 17 and they came up against Judah, broke into it, and carried away all the possessions that were found in the king’s house, including his sons and his wives; so that there was no son left him, except Jehoahaz, the youngest of his sons. 
2CH  21\v 17 and they came up against Judah, broke into it, and carried away all the possessions that were found in the king’s house, including his sons and his wives, so that there was no son left to him except Jehoahaz, the youngest of his sons. 
2CH  22\v 5 He also followed their counsel, and went with Jehoram the son of Ahab king of Israel to war against Hazael king of Syria at Ramoth Gilead, and the Syrians wounded Joram. 
2CH  22\v 5 He also followed their counsel, and went with Jehoram the son of Ahab king of Israel to war against Hazael king of Syria at Ramoth Gilead; and the Syrians wounded Joram. 
2CH  22\v 9 He sought Ahaziah, and they caught him (now he was hiding in Samaria), and they brought him to Jehu, and killed him; and they buried him, for they said, “He is the son of Jehoshaphat, who sought Yahweh with all his heart.” The house of Ahaziah had no power to hold the kingdom. 
2CH  22\v 9 He sought Ahaziah, and they caught him (now he was hiding in Samaria), and they brought him to Jehu and killed him; and they buried him, for they said, “He is the son of Jehoshaphat, who sought Yahweh with all his heart.” The house of Ahaziah had no power to hold the kingdom. 
2CH  23\v 1 In the seventh year, Jehoiada strengthened himself, and took the captains of hundreds, Azariah the son of Jeroham, Ishmael the son of Jehohanan, Azariah the son of Obed, Maaseiah the son of Adaiah, and Elishaphat the son of Zichri, into a covenant with him. 
2CH  23\v 1 In the seventh year, Jehoiada strengthened himself, and took the captains of hundreds—Azariah the son of Jeroham, Ishmael the son of Jehohanan, Azariah the son of Obed, Maaseiah the son of Adaiah, and Elishaphat the son of Zichri—into a covenant with him. 
2CH  23\v 3 All the assembly made a covenant with the king in God’s house. He said to them, “Behold, the king’s son must reign, as Yahweh has spoken concerning the sons of David. 
2CH  23\v 3 All the assembly made a covenant with the king in God’s house. Jehoiada\f + \fr 23:3  \ft Hebrew \fq He\f* said to them, “Behold, the king’s son must reign, as Yahweh has spoken concerning the sons of David. 
2CH  23\v 7 The Levites shall surround the king, every man with his weapons in his hand. Whoever comes into the house, let him be slain. Be with the king when he comes in, and when he goes out.” 
2CH  23\v 7 The Levites shall surround the king, every man with his weapons in his hand. Whoever comes into the house, let him be slain. Be with the king when he comes in and when he goes out.” 
2CH  23\v 9 Jehoiada the priest delivered to the captains of hundreds the spears, and bucklers, and shields, that had been king David’s, which were in God’s house. 
2CH  23\v 9 Jehoiada the priest delivered to the captains of hundreds the spears, bucklers, and shields that had been king David’s, which were in God’s house. 
2CH  23\v 11 Then they brought out the king’s son, and put the crown on him, and gave him the covenant, and made him king. Jehoiada and his sons anointed him, and they said, “Long live the king!” 
2CH  23\v 11 Then they brought out the king’s son, put the crown on him, gave him the covenant, and made him king. Jehoiada and his sons anointed him, and they said, “Long live the king!” 
2CH  23\v 13 Then she looked, and, behold, the king stood by his pillar at the entrance, and the captains and the trumpets by the king. All the people of the land rejoiced, and blew trumpets. The singers also played musical instruments, and led the singing of praise. Then Athaliah tore her clothes, and said, “Treason! treason!” 
2CH  23\v 13 Then she looked, and behold, the king stood by his pillar at the entrance, with the captains and the trumpeters by the king. All the people of the land rejoiced and blew trumpets. The singers also played musical instruments, and led the singing of praise. Then Athaliah tore her clothes, and said, “Treason! treason!” 
2CH  24\v 17 Now after the death of Jehoiada, the princes of Judah came, and bowed down to the king. Then the king listened to them. 
2CH  24\v 17 Now after the death of Jehoiada, the princes of Judah came and bowed down to the king. Then the king listened to them. 
2CH  24\v 19 Yet he sent prophets to them, to bring them again to Yahweh, and they testified against them; but they would not listen. 
2CH  24\v 19 Yet he sent prophets to them to bring them again to Yahweh, and they testified against them; but they would not listen. 
2CH  24\v 23 At the end of the year, the army of the Syrians came up against him: and they came to Judah and Jerusalem, and destroyed all the princes of the people from among the people, and sent all their plunder to the king of Damascus. 
2CH  24\v 23 At the end of the year, the army of the Syrians came up against him. They came to Judah and Jerusalem, and destroyed all the princes of the people from among the people, and sent all their plunder to the king of Damascus. 
2CH  24\v 25 When they had departed from him (for they left him very sick), his own servants conspired against him for the blood of the sons of Jehoiada the priest, and killed him on his bed, and he died. They buried him in David’s city, but they didn’t bury him in the tombs of the kings. 
2CH  24\v 25 When they had departed from him (for they left him seriously wounded), his own servants conspired against him for the blood of the sons of Jehoiada the priest, and killed him on his bed, and he died. They buried him in David’s city, but they didn’t bury him in the tombs of the kings. 
2CH  25\v 5 Moreover Amaziah gathered Judah together, and ordered them according to their fathers’ houses, under captains of thousands and captains of hundreds, even all Judah and Benjamin. He counted them from twenty years old and upward, and found that there were three hundred thousand chosen men, able to go out to war, who could handle spear and shield. 
2CH  25\v 5 Moreover Amaziah gathered Judah together and ordered them according to their fathers’ houses, under captains of thousands and captains of hundreds, even all Judah and Benjamin. He counted them from twenty years old and upward, and found that there were three hundred thousand chosen men, able to go out to war, who could handle spear and shield. 
2CH  25\v 11 Amaziah took courage, and led his people out, and went to the Valley of Salt, and struck ten thousand of the children of Seir. 
2CH  25\v 11 Amaziah took courage, and led his people out and went to the Valley of Salt, and struck ten thousand of the children of Seir. 
2CH  25\v 13 But the men of the army whom Amaziah sent back, that they should not go with him to battle, fell on the cities of Judah, from Samaria even to Beth Horon, and struck of them three thousand, and took much plunder. 
2CH  25\v 13 But the men of the army whom Amaziah sent back, that they should not go with him to battle, fell on the cities of Judah from Samaria even to Beth Horon, and struck of them three thousand, and took much plunder. 
2CH  25\v 15 Therefore Yahweh’s anger burned against Amaziah, and he sent to him a prophet, who said to him, “Why have you sought after the gods of the people, which have not delivered their own people out of your hand?” 
2CH  25\v 15 Therefore Yahweh’s anger burned against Amaziah, and he sent to him a prophet who said to him, “Why have you sought after the gods of the people, which have not delivered their own people out of your hand?” 
2CH  25\v 17 Then Amaziah king of Judah consulted his advisers, and sent to Joash, the son of Jehoahaz the son of Jehu, king of Israel, saying, “Come! Let’s look one another in the face.” 
2CH  25\v 17 Then Amaziah king of Judah consulted his advisers, and sent to Joash, the son of Jehoahaz, the son of Jehu, king of Israel, saying, “Come! Let’s look one another in the face.” 
2CH  25\v 19 You say to yourself that you have struck Edom; and your heart lifts you up to boast. Now stay at home. Why should you meddle with trouble, that you should fall, even you, and Judah with you?’” 
2CH  25\v 19 You say to yourself that you have struck Edom; and your heart lifts you up to boast. Now stay at home. Why should you meddle with trouble, that you should fall, even you and Judah with you?’” 
2CH  25\v 23 Joash king of Israel took Amaziah king of Judah, the son of Joash the son of Jehoahaz, at Beth Shemesh, and brought him to Jerusalem, and broke down the wall of Jerusalem from the gate of Ephraim to the corner gate, four hundred cubits.\f + \fr 25:23  \ft A cubit is the length from the tip of the middle finger to the elbow on a man’s arm, or about 18 inches or 46 centimeters, so 400 cubits is about 200 yards or 184 meters.\f* 
2CH  25\v 23 Joash king of Israel took Amaziah king of Judah, the son of Joash the son of Jehoahaz, at Beth Shemesh and brought him to Jerusalem, and broke down the wall of Jerusalem from the gate of Ephraim to the corner gate, four hundred cubits.\f + \fr 25:23  \ft A cubit is the length from the tip of the middle finger to the elbow on a man’s arm, or about 18 inches or 46 centimeters, so 400 cubits is about 200 yards or 184 meters.\f* 
2CH  25\v 25 Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah lived for fifteen years after the death of Joash son of Jehoahaz king of Israel. 
2CH  25\v 25 Amaziah the son of Joash, king of Judah, lived for fifteen years after the death of Joash, son of Jehoahaz, king of Israel. 
2CH  25\v 27 Now from the time that Amaziah turned away from following Yahweh, they made a conspiracy against him in Jerusalem. He fled to Lachish, but they sent after him to Lachish, and killed him there. 
2CH  25\v 27 Now from the time that Amaziah turned away from following Yahweh, they made a conspiracy against him in Jerusalem. He fled to Lachish, but they sent after him to Lachish and killed him there. 
2CH  26\v 11 Moreover Uzziah had an army of fighting men, who went out to war by bands, according to the number of their reckoning made by Jeiel the scribe and Maaseiah the officer, under the hand of Hananiah, one of the king’s captains. 
2CH  26\v 11 Moreover Uzziah had an army of fighting men who went out to war by bands, according to the number of their reckoning made by Jeiel the scribe and Maaseiah the officer, under the hand of Hananiah, one of the king’s captains. 
2CH  27\v 7 Now the rest of the acts of Jotham, and all his wars, and his ways, behold, they are written in the book of the kings of Israel and Judah. 
2CH  27\v 7 Now the rest of the acts of Jotham, and all his wars and his ways, behold, they are written in the book of the kings of Israel and Judah. 
2CH  28\v 15 The men who have been mentioned by name rose up and took the captives, and with the plunder clothed all who were naked among them, dressed them, gave them sandals, and gave them something to eat and to drink, anointed them, carried all the feeble of them on donkeys, and brought them to Jericho, the city of palm trees, to their brothers. Then they returned to Samaria. 
2CH  28\v 15 The men who have been mentioned by name rose up and took the captives, and with the plunder clothed all who were naked among them, dressed them, gave them sandals, gave them something to eat and to drink, anointed them, carried all the feeble of them on donkeys, and brought them to Jericho, the city of palm trees, to their brothers. Then they returned to Samaria. 
2CH  28\v 23 For he sacrificed to the gods of Damascus, which struck him. He said, “Because the gods of the kings of Syria helped them, so I will sacrifice to them, that they may help me.” But they were the ruin of him, and of all Israel. 
2CH  28\v 23 For he sacrificed to the gods of Damascus which had defeated him. He said, “Because the gods of the kings of Syria helped them, I will sacrifice to them, that they may help me.” But they were the ruin of him and of all Israel. 
2CH  29\v 3 In the first year of his reign, in the first month, he opened the doors of Yahweh’s house, and repaired them. 
2CH  29\v 3 In the first year of his reign, in the first month, he opened the doors of Yahweh’s house and repaired them. 
2CH  29\v 9 For, behold, our fathers have fallen by the sword, and our sons and our daughters and our wives are in captivity for this. 
2CH  29\v 9 For behold, our fathers have fallen by the sword, and our sons and our daughters and our wives are in captivity for this. 
2CH  29\v 11 My sons, don’t be negligent now; for Yahweh has chosen you to stand before him, to minister to him, and that you should be his ministers, and burn incense.” 
2CH  29\v 11 My sons, don’t be negligent now; for Yahweh has chosen you to stand before him, to minister to him, and that you should be his ministers and burn incense.” 
2CH  29\v 19 Moreover, we have prepared and sanctified all the vessels which king Ahaz threw away in his reign, when he was unfaithful. Behold, they are before Yahweh’s altar.” 
2CH  29\v 19 Moreover, we have prepared and sanctified all the vessels which king Ahaz threw away in his reign when he was unfaithful. Behold, they are before Yahweh’s altar.” 
2CH  29\v 35 Also the burnt offerings were in abundance, with the fat of the peace offerings, and with the drink offerings for every burnt offering. So the service of Yahweh’s house was set in order. 
2CH  29\v 35 Also the burnt offerings were in abundance, with the fat of the peace offerings and with the drink offerings for every burnt offering. So the service of Yahweh’s house was set in order. 
2CH  30\v 9 For if you turn again to Yahweh, your brothers and your children will find compassion before those who led them captive, and will come again into this land, because Yahweh your God is gracious and merciful, and will not turn away his face from you, if you return to him.” 
2CH  30\v 9 For if you turn again to Yahweh, your brothers and your children will find compassion with those who led them captive, and will come again into this land, because Yahweh your God is gracious and merciful, and will not turn away his face from you if you return to him.” 
2CH  30\v 11 Nevertheless some men of Asher, Manasseh, and Zebulun humbled themselves, and came to Jerusalem. 
2CH  30\v 11 Nevertheless some men of Asher, Manasseh, and Zebulun humbled themselves and came to Jerusalem. 
2CH  30\v 17 For there were many in the assembly who had not sanctified themselves: therefore the Levites were in charge of killing the Passovers for everyone who was not clean, to sanctify them to Yahweh. 
2CH  30\v 17 For there were many in the assembly who had not sanctified themselves; therefore the Levites were in charge of killing the Passovers for everyone who was not clean, to sanctify them to Yahweh. 
2CH  30\v 25 All the assembly of Judah, with the priests and the Levites, and all the assembly who came out of Israel, and the foreigners who came out of the land of Israel, and who lived in Judah, rejoiced. 
2CH  30\v 25 All the assembly of Judah, with the priests and the Levites, and all the assembly who came out of Israel, and the foreigners who came out of the land of Israel and who lived in Judah, rejoiced. 
2CH  31\v 1 Now when all this was finished, all Israel who were present went out to the cities of Judah, and broke the pillars in pieces, cut down the Asherah poles, and broke down the high places and the altars out of all Judah and Benjamin, also in Ephraim and Manasseh, until they had destroyed them all. Then all the children of Israel returned, every man to his possession, into their own cities. 
2CH  31\v 1 Now when all this was finished, all Israel who were present went out to the cities of Judah and broke the pillars in pieces, cut down the Asherah poles, and broke down the high places and the altars out of all Judah and Benjamin, also in Ephraim and Manasseh, until they had destroyed them all. Then all the children of Israel returned, every man to his possession, into their own cities. 
2CH  31\v 3 He also appointed the king’s portion of his possessions for the burnt offerings, for the morning and evening burnt offerings, and the burnt offerings for the Sabbaths, for the new moons, and for the set feasts, as it is written in Yahweh’s law. 
2CH  31\v 3 He also appointed the king’s portion of his possessions for the burnt offerings: for the morning and evening burnt offerings, and the burnt offerings for the Sabbaths, for the new moons, and for the set feasts, as it is written in Yahweh’s law. 
2CH  31\v 7 In the third month they began to lay the foundation of the heaps, and finished them in the seventh month. 
2CH  31\v 7 In the third month, they began to lay the foundation of the heaps, and finished them in the seventh month. 
2CH  31\v 19 Also for the sons of Aaron the priests, who were in the fields of the pasture lands of their cities, in every city, there were men who were mentioned by name, to give portions to all the males among the priests, and to all who were listed by genealogy among the Levites. 
2CH  31\v 19 Also for the sons of Aaron the priests, who were in the fields of the pasture lands of their cities, in every city, there were men who were mentioned by name to give portions to all the males among the priests and to all who were listed by genealogy among the Levites. 
2CH  32\v 21 In every work that he began in the service of God’s house, in the law, and in the commandments, to seek his God, he did it with all his heart, and prospered. 
2CH  32\v 21 In every work that he began in the service of God’s house, in the law, and in the commandments, to seek his God, he did it with all his heart and prospered. 
2CH  32\v 1 After these things and this faithfulness, Sennacherib king of Assyria came, entered into Judah, and encamped against the fortified cities, and intended to win them for himself. 
2CH  32\v 1 After these things and this faithfulness, Sennacherib king of Assyria came, entered into Judah, encamped against the fortified cities, and intended to win them for himself. 
2CH  32\v 9 After this, Sennacherib king of Assyria sent his servants to Jerusalem, (now he was before Lachish, and all his power with him), to Hezekiah king of Judah, and to all Judah who were at Jerusalem, saying, 
2CH  32\v 9 After this, Sennacherib king of Assyria sent his servants to Jerusalem, (now he was attacking Lachish, and all his forces were with him), to Hezekiah king of Judah, and to all Judah who were at Jerusalem, saying, 
2CH  32\v 11 Doesn’t Hezekiah persuade you, to give you over to die by famine and by thirst, saying, ‘Yahweh our God will deliver us out of the hand of the king of Assyria?’ 
2CH  32\v 11 Doesn’t Hezekiah persuade you to give you over to die by famine and by thirst, saying, ‘Yahweh our God will deliver us out of the hand of the king of Assyria?’ 
2CH  32\v 13 Don’t you know what I and my fathers have done to all the peoples of the lands? Were the gods of the nations of the lands in any way able to deliver their land out of my hand? 
2CH  32\v 13 Don’t you know what I and my fathers have done to all the peoples of the lands? Were the gods of the nations of those lands in any way able to deliver their land out of my hand? 
2CH  32\v 15 Now therefore don’t let Hezekiah deceive you, nor persuade you in this way. Don’t believe him, for no god of any nation or kingdom was able to deliver his people out of my hand, and out of the hand of my fathers. How much less will your God deliver you out of my hand?” 
2CH  32\v 15 Now therefore don’t let Hezekiah deceive you nor persuade you in this way. Don’t believe him, for no god of any nation or kingdom was able to deliver his people out of my hand, and out of the hand of my fathers. How much less will your God deliver you out of my hand?” 
2CH  32\v 21 Yahweh sent an angel, who cut off all the mighty men of valor, and the leaders and captains, in the camp of the king of Assyria. So he returned with shame of face to his own land. When he had come into the house of his god, those who came out of his own body\f + \fr 32:21  \ft i.e., his own sons\f* killed him there with the sword. 
2CH  32\v 21 Yahweh sent an angel, who cut off all the mighty men of valor, the leaders, and captains in the camp of the king of Assyria. So he returned with shame of face to his own land. When he had come into the house of his god, those who came out of his own body\f + \fr 32:21  \ft i.e., his own sons\f* killed him there with the sword. 
2CH  32\v 23 Many brought gifts to Yahweh to Jerusalem, and precious things to Hezekiah king of Judah; so that he was exalted in the sight of all nations from then on. 
2CH  32\v 23 Many brought gifts to Yahweh to Jerusalem, and precious things to Hezekiah king of Judah, so that he was exalted in the sight of all nations from then on. 
2CH  32\v 25 But Hezekiah didn’t reciprocate appropriate to the benefit done for him, because his heart was lifted up. Therefore there was wrath on him, and on Judah and Jerusalem. 
2CH  32\v 25 But Hezekiah didn’t reciprocate appropriate to the benefit done for him, because his heart was lifted up. Therefore there was wrath on him, Judah, and Jerusalem. 
2CH  32\v 27 Hezekiah had exceedingly much riches and honor. He provided himself with treasuries for silver, for gold, for precious stones, for spices, for shields, and for all kinds of valuable vessels; 
2CH  32\v 27 Hezekiah had exceedingly great riches and honor. He provided himself with treasuries for silver, for gold, for precious stones, for spices, for shields, and for all kinds of valuable vessels; 
2CH  32\v 31 However concerning the ambassadors of the princes of Babylon, who sent to him to inquire of the wonder that was done in the land, God left him, to try him, that he might know all that was in his heart. 
2CH  32\v 31 However, concerning the ambassadors of the princes of Babylon, who sent to him to inquire of the wonder that was done in the land, God left him to test him, that he might know all that was in his heart. 
2CH  33\v 33 Hezekiah slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the ascent of the tombs of the sons of David. All Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem honored him at his death. Manasseh his son reigned in his place. 
2CH  33\v 33 Hezekiah slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the ascent to the tombs of the sons of David. All Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem honored him at his death. Manasseh his son reigned in his place. 
2CH  33\v 15 He took away the foreign gods, and the idol out of Yahweh’s house, and all the altars that he had built in the mountain of Yahweh’s house, and in Jerusalem, and cast them out of the city. 
2CH  33\v 15 He took away the foreign gods and the idol out of Yahweh’s house, and all the altars that he had built in the mountain of Yahweh’s house and in Jerusalem, and cast them out of the city. 
2CH  33\v 17 Nevertheless the people sacrificed still in the high places, but only to Yahweh their God. 
2CH  33\v 17 Nevertheless the people still sacrificed in the high places, but only to Yahweh their God. 
2CH  33\v 19 His prayer also, and how God was entreated of him, and all his sin and his trespass, and the places in which he built high places, and set up the Asherah poles and the engraved images, before he humbled himself: behold, they are written in the history of Hozai.\f + \fr 33:19  \ft or, the seers\f* 
2CH  33\v 19 His prayer also, and how God listened to his request, and all his sin and his trespass, and the places in which he built high places and set up the Asherah poles and the engraved images before he humbled himself: behold, they are written in the history of Hozai.\f + \fr 33:19  \ft or, the seers\f* 
2CH  34\v 7 He broke down the altars, and beat the Asherah poles and the engraved images into powder, and cut down all the incense altars throughout all the land of Israel, then returned to Jerusalem. 
2CH  34\v 7 He broke down the altars, beat the Asherah poles and the engraved images into powder, and cut down all the incense altars throughout all the land of Israel, then returned to Jerusalem. 
2CH  34\v 9 They came to Hilkiah the high priest, and delivered the money that was brought into God’s house, which the Levites, the keepers of the threshold, had gathered from the hands of Manasseh, Ephraim, of all the remnant of Israel, of all Judah and Benjamin, and of the inhabitants of Jerusalem. 
2CH  34\v 9 They came to Hilkiah the high priest and delivered the money that was brought into God’s house, which the Levites, the keepers of the threshold, had gathered from the hands of Manasseh, Ephraim, of all the remnant of Israel, of all Judah and Benjamin, and of the inhabitants of Jerusalem. 
2CH  34\v 11 They gave it to the carpenters and to the builders, to buy cut stone and timber for couplings, and to make beams for the houses which the kings of Judah had destroyed. 
2CH  34\v 11 They gave it to the carpenters and to the builders to buy cut stone and timber for couplings, and to make beams for the houses which the kings of Judah had destroyed. 
2CH  34\v 17 They have emptied out the money that was found in Yahweh’s house, and have delivered it into the hand of the overseers, and into the hand of the workmen.” 
2CH  34\v 17 They have emptied out the money that was found in Yahweh’s house, and have delivered it into the hand of the overseers and into the hand of the workmen.” 
2CH  34\v 25 Because they have forsaken me, and have burned incense to other gods, that they might provoke me to anger with all the works of their hands; therefore my wrath is poured out on this place, and it will not be quenched.’”’ 
2CH  34\v 25 Because they have forsaken me, and have burned incense to other gods, that they might provoke me to anger with all the works of their hands, therefore my wrath is poured out on this place, and it will not be quenched.’”’ 
2CH  34\v 27 because your heart was tender, and you humbled yourself before God, when you heard his words against this place, and against its inhabitants, and have humbled yourself before me, and have torn your clothes, and wept before me, I also have heard you,” says Yahweh. 
2CH  34\v 27 because your heart was tender, and you humbled yourself before God when you heard his words against this place and against its inhabitants, and have humbled yourself before me, and have torn your clothes and wept before me, I also have heard you,” says Yahweh. 
2CH  34\v 31 The king stood in his place, and made a covenant before Yahweh, to walk after Yahweh, and to keep his commandments, and his testimonies, and his statutes, with all his heart, and with all his soul, to perform the words of the covenant that were written in this book. 
2CH  34\v 31 The king stood in his place and made a covenant before Yahweh, to walk after Yahweh, and to keep his commandments, his testimonies, and his statutes with all his heart and with all his soul, to perform the words of the covenant that were written in this book. 
2CH  35\v 3 He said to the Levites who taught all Israel, who were holy to Yahweh, “Put the holy ark in the house which Solomon the son of David king of Israel built. It will no longer be a burden on your shoulders. Now serve Yahweh your God, and his people Israel. 
2CH  35\v 3 He said to the Levites who taught all Israel, who were holy to Yahweh, “Put the holy ark in the house which Solomon the son of David king of Israel built. It will no longer be a burden on your shoulders. Now serve Yahweh your God and his people Israel. 
2CH  35\v 11 They killed the Passover, and the priests sprinkled the blood which they received of their hand, and the Levites skinned them. 
2CH  35\v 11 They killed the Passover lambs, and the priests sprinkled the blood which they received from their hands, and the Levites skinned them. 
2CH  35\v 15 The singers the sons of Asaph were in their place, according to the commandment of David, Asaph, Heman, and Jeduthun the king’s seer; and the gatekeepers were at every gate. They didn’t need to depart from their service, because their brothers the Levites prepared for them. 
2CH  35\v 15 The singers, the sons of Asaph, were in their place, according to the commandment of David, Asaph, Heman, and Jeduthun the king’s seer; and the gatekeepers were at every gate. They didn’t need to depart from their service, because their brothers the Levites prepared for them. 
2CH  36\v 15 Yahweh, the God of their fathers, sent to them by his messengers, rising up early and sending, because he had compassion on his people, and on his dwelling place; 
2CH  36\v 15 Yahweh, the God of their fathers, sent to them by his messengers, rising up early and sending, because he had compassion on his people and on his dwelling place; 
2CH  36\v 17 Therefore he brought on them the king of the Chaldeans, who killed their young men with the sword in the house of their sanctuary, and had no compassion on young man or virgin, old man or gray-headed. He gave them all into his hand. 
2CH  36\v 17 Therefore he brought on them the king of the Chaldeans, who killed their young men with the sword in the house of their sanctuary, and had no compassion on young man or virgin, old man or infirm. He gave them all into his hand. 
2CH  36\v 19 They burned God’s house, and broke down the wall of Jerusalem, and burned all its palaces with fire, and destroyed all of its valuable vessels. 
2CH  36\v 19 They burned God’s house, broke down the wall of Jerusalem, burned all its palaces with fire, and destroyed all of its valuable vessels. 
EZR   1\v 3 Whoever there is among you of all his people, may his God be with him, and let him go up to Jerusalem, which is in Judah, and build the house of Yahweh, the God of Israel (he is God), which is in Jerusalem. 
EZR   1\v 2 “Cyrus king of Persia says, ‘Yahweh, the God\f + \fr 1:2  \ft The Hebrew word rendered “God” is “אֱלֹהִ֑ים” (Elohim).\f* of heaven, has given me all the kingdoms of the earth; and he has commanded me to build him a house in Jerusalem, which is in Judah. 
EZR   1\v 5 Then the heads of fathers’ households of Judah and Benjamin, the priests, and the Levites, all whose spirit God had stirred to go up rose up to build Yahweh’s house which is in Jerusalem. 
EZR   1\v 4 Whoever is left, in any place where he lives, let the men of his place help him with silver, with gold, with goods, and with animals, in addition to the free will offering for God’s house which is in Jerusalem.’” 
EZR   1\v 7 Also Cyrus the king brought out the vessels of Yahweh’s house, which Nebuchadnezzar had brought out of Jerusalem, and had put in the house of his gods; 
EZR   1\v 6 All those who were around them strengthened their hands with vessels of silver, with gold, with goods, with animals, and with precious things, in addition to all that was willingly offered. 
EZR   1\v 9 This is the number of them: thirty platters of gold, one thousand platters of silver, twenty-nine knives, 
EZR   1\v 8 even those, Cyrus king of Persia brought out by the hand of Mithredath the treasurer, and counted them out to Sheshbazzar the prince of Judah. 
EZR   2\v 11 All the vessels of gold and of silver were five thousand four hundred. Sheshbazzar brought all these up when the captives were brought up from Babylon to Jerusalem. 
EZR   1\v 10 thirty bowls of gold, four hundred ten silver bowls of a second kind, and one thousand other vessels. 
EZR   2\v 1 Now these are the children of the province, who went up out of the captivity of those who had been carried away, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried away to Babylon, and who returned to Jerusalem and Judah, everyone to his city; 
EZR   2EZR   2\v 3 The children of Parosh, two thousand one hundred seventy-two. 
EZR   2\v 1 Now these are the children of the province who went up out of the captivity of those who had been carried away, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried away to Babylon, and who returned to Jerusalem and Judah, everyone to his city; 
EZR   2\v 5 The children of Arah, seven hundred seventy-five. 
EZR   2\v 3 The children of Parosh, two thousand one hundred seventy-two. 
EZR   2\v 7 The children of Elam, one thousand two hundred fifty-four. 
EZR   2\v 5 The children of Arah, seven hundred seventy-five. 
EZR   2\v 9 The children of Zaccai, seven hundred sixty. 
EZR   2\v 7 The children of Elam, one thousand two hundred fifty-four. 
EZR   2\v 11 The children of Bebai, six hundred twenty-three. 
EZR   2\v 9 The children of Zaccai, seven hundred sixty. 
EZR   2\v 13 The children of Adonikam, six hundred sixty-six. 
EZR   2\v 11 The children of Bebai, six hundred twenty-three. 
EZR   2\v 15 The children of Adin, four hundred fifty-four. 
EZR   2\v 13 The children of Adonikam, six hundred sixty-six. 
EZR   2\v 17 The children of Bezai, three hundred twenty-three. 
EZR   2\v 15 The children of Adin, four hundred fifty-four. 
EZR   2\v 19 The children of Hashum, two hundred twenty-three. 
EZR   2\v 17 The children of Bezai, three hundred twenty-three. 
EZR   2\v 21 The children of Bethlehem, one hundred twenty-three. 
EZR   2\v 19 The children of Hashum, two hundred twenty-three. 
EZR   2\v 23 The men of Anathoth, one hundred twenty-eight. 
EZR   2\v 21 The children of Bethlehem, one hundred twenty-three. 
EZR   2\v 25 The children of Kiriath Arim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, seven hundred forty-three. 
EZR   2\v 23 The men of Anathoth, one hundred twenty-eight. 
EZR   2\v 27 The men of Michmas, one hundred twenty-two. 
EZR   2\v 25 The children of Kiriath Arim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, seven hundred forty-three. 
EZR   2\v 29 The children of Nebo, fifty-two. 
EZR   2\v 27 The men of Michmas, one hundred twenty-two. 
EZR   2\v 31 The children of the other Elam, one thousand two hundred fifty-four. 
EZR   2\v 29 The children of Nebo, fifty-two. 
EZR   2\v 33 The children of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred twenty-five. 
EZR   2\v 31 The children of the other Elam, one thousand two hundred fifty-four. 
EZR   2\v 35 The children of Senaah, three thousand six hundred thirty. 
EZR   2\v 33 The children of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred twenty-five. 
EZR   2\v 37 The children of Immer, one thousand fifty-two. 
EZR   2\v 35 The children of Senaah, three thousand six hundred thirty. 
EZR   2\v 39 The children of Harim, one thousand seventeen. 
EZR   2\v 37 The children of Immer, one thousand fifty-two. 
EZR   2\v 41 The singers: the children of Asaph, one hundred twenty-eight. 
EZR   2\v 39 The children of Harim, one thousand seventeen. 
EZR   2\v 43 The temple servants: the children of Ziha, the children of Hasupha, the children of Tabbaoth, 
EZR   2\v 41 The singers: the children of Asaph, one hundred twenty-eight. 
EZR   2\v 45 the children of Lebanah, the children of Hagabah, the children of Akkub, 
EZR   2\v 43 The temple servants: the children of Ziha, the children of Hasupha, the children of Tabbaoth, 
EZR   2\v 47 the children of Giddel, the children of Gahar, the children of Reaiah, 
EZR   2\v 45 the children of Lebanah, the children of Hagabah, the children of Akkub, 
EZR   2\v 49 the children of Uzza, the children of Paseah, the children of Besai, 
EZR   2\v 47 the children of Giddel, the children of Gahar, the children of Reaiah, 
EZR   2\v 51 the children of Bakbuk, the children of Hakupha, the children of Harhur, 
EZR   2\v 49 the children of Uzza, the children of Paseah, the children of Besai, 
EZR   2\v 53 the children of Barkos, the children of Sisera, the children of Temah, 
EZR   2\v 51 the children of Bakbuk, the children of Hakupha, the children of Harhur, 
EZR   2\v 55 The children of Solomon’s servants: the children of Sotai, the children of Hassophereth, the children of Peruda, 
EZR   2\v 53 the children of Barkos, the children of Sisera, the children of Temah, 
EZR   2\v 57 the children of Shephatiah, the children of Hattil, the children of Pochereth Hazzebaim, the children of Ami. 
EZR   2\v 55 The children of Solomon’s servants: the children of Sotai, the children of Hassophereth, the children of Peruda, 
EZR   2\v 59 These were those who went up from Tel Melah, Tel Harsha, Cherub, Addan, and Immer; but they could not show their fathers’ houses, and their offspring,\f + \fr 2:59  \ft or, seed\f* whether they were of Israel: 
EZR   2\v 57 the children of Shephatiah, the children of Hattil, the children of Pochereth Hazzebaim, the children of Ami. 
EZR   2\v 61 Of the children of the priests: the children of Habaiah, the children of Hakkoz, and the children of Barzillai, who took a wife of the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite, and was called after their name. 
EZR   2\v 59 These were those who went up from Tel Melah, Tel Harsha, Cherub, Addan, and Immer; but they could not show their fathers’ houses and their offspring,\f + \fr 2:59  \ft or, seed\f* whether they were of Israel: 
EZR   2\v 63 The governor told them that they should not eat of the most holy things until a priest stood up to serve with Urim and with Thummim. 
EZR   2\v 61 Of the children of the priests: the children of Habaiah, the children of Hakkoz, and the children of Barzillai, who took a wife of the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite, and was called after their name. 
EZR   2\v 65 in addition to their male servants and their female servants, of whom there were seven thousand three hundred thirty-seven; and they had two hundred singing men and singing women. 
EZR   2\v 63 The governor told them that they should not eat of the most holy things until a priest stood up to serve with Urim and with Thummim. 
EZR   2\v 67 their camels, four hundred thirty-five; their donkeys, six thousand seven hundred twenty. 
EZR   2\v 65 in addition to their male servants and their female servants, of whom there were seven thousand three hundred thirty-seven; and they had two hundred singing men and singing women. 
EZR   2\v 69 They gave according to their ability into the treasury of the work sixty-one thousand darics of gold,\f + \fr 2:69  \ft a daric was a gold coin issued by a Persian king, weighing about 8.4 grams or about 0.27 troy ounces each.\f* and five thousand minas\f + \fr 2:69  \ft A mina is about 600 grams or 1.3 U. S. pounds, so 5,000 minas is about 3 metric tons.\f* of silver, and one hundred priests’ garments. 
EZR   2\v 67 their camels, four hundred thirty-five; their donkeys, six thousand seven hundred twenty. 
EZR   3EZR   2\v 69 They gave according to their ability into the treasury of the work sixty-one thousand darics of gold,\f + \fr 2:69  \ft a daric was a gold coin issued by a Persian king, weighing about 8.4 grams or about 0.27 troy ounces each.\f* five thousand minas\f + \fr 2:69  \ft A mina is about 600 grams or 1.3 U. S. pounds, so 5,000 minas is about 3 metric tons.\f* of silver, and one hundred priests’ garments. 
EZR   3\v 1 When the seventh month had come, and the children of Israel were in the cities, the people gathered themselves together as one man to Jerusalem. 
EZR   3EZR   3\v 3 In spite of their fear because of the peoples of the surrounding lands, they set the altar on its base; and they offered burnt offerings on it to Yahweh, even burnt offerings morning and evening. 
EZR   3\v 1 When the seventh month had come, and the children of Israel were in the cities, the people gathered themselves together as one man to Jerusalem. 
EZR   3\v 5 and afterward the continual burnt offering, the offerings of the new moons, of all the set feasts of Yahweh that were consecrated, and of everyone who willingly offered a free will offering to Yahweh. 
EZR   3\v 3 In spite of their fear because of the peoples of the surrounding lands, they set the altar on its base; and they offered burnt offerings on it to Yahweh, even burnt offerings morning and evening. 
EZR   3\v 7 They also gave money to the masons, and to the carpenters. They also gave food, drink, and oil to the people of Sidon and Tyre, to bring cedar trees from Lebanon to the sea, to Joppa, according to the grant that they had from Cyrus King of Persia. 
EZR   3\v 5 and afterward the continual burnt offering, the offerings of the new moons, of all the set feasts of Yahweh that were consecrated, and of everyone who willingly offered a free will offering to Yahweh. 
EZR   3\v 9 Then Jeshua stood with his sons and his brothers, Kadmiel and his sons, the sons of Judah, together, to have the oversight of the workmen in God’s house: the sons of Henadad, with their sons and their brothers the Levites. 
EZR   3\v 7 They also gave money to the masons and to the carpenters. They also gave food, drink, and oil to the people of Sidon and Tyre to bring cedar trees from Lebanon to the sea, to Joppa, according to the grant that they had from Cyrus King of Persia. 
EZR   3\v 11 They sang to one another in praising and giving thanks to Yahweh, “For he is good, for his loving kindness endures forever toward Israel.” All the people shouted with a great shout, when they praised Yahweh, because the foundation of Yahweh’s house had been laid. 
EZR   3\v 9 Then Jeshua stood with his sons and his brothers, Kadmiel and his sons, the sons of Judah, together to have the oversight of the workmen in God’s house: the sons of Henadad, with their sons and their brothers the Levites. 
EZR   4\v 13 so that the people could not discern the noise of the shout of joy from the noise of the weeping of the people; for the people shouted with a loud shout, and the noise was heard far away. 
EZR   3\v 11 They sang to one another in praising and giving thanks to Yahweh, “For he is good, for his loving kindness endures forever toward Israel.” All the people shouted with a great shout, when they praised Yahweh, because the foundation of Yahweh’s house had been laid. 
EZR   4\v 1 Now when the adversaries of Judah and Benjamin heard that the children of the captivity were building a temple to Yahweh, the God of Israel; 
EZR   4\v 13 so that the people could not discern the noise of the shout of joy from the noise of the weeping of the people; for the people shouted with a loud shout, and the noise was heard far away. 
EZR   4\v 3 But Zerubbabel, and Jeshua, and the rest of the heads of fathers’ households of Israel, said to them, “You have nothing to do with us in building a house to our God; but we ourselves together will build to Yahweh, the God of Israel, as king Cyrus the king of Persia has commanded us.” 
EZR   4\v 1 Now when the adversaries of Judah and Benjamin heard that the children of the captivity were building a temple to Yahweh, the God of Israel, 
EZR   4\v 5 They hired counselors against them, to frustrate their purpose, all the days of Cyrus king of Persia, even until the reign of Darius king of Persia. 
EZR   4\v 3 But Zerubbabel, Jeshua, and the rest of the heads of fathers’ households of Israel said to them, “You have nothing to do with us in building a house to our God; but we ourselves together will build to Yahweh, the God of Israel, as king Cyrus the king of Persia has commanded us.” 
EZR   4\v 7 In the days of Artaxerxes, Bishlam, Mithredath, Tabeel, and the rest of his companions, wrote to Artaxerxes king of Persia; and the writing of the letter was written in Syrian, and delivered in the Syrian language. 
EZR   4\v 5 They hired counselors against them to frustrate their purpose all the days of Cyrus king of Persia, even until the reign of Darius king of Persia. 
EZR   4\v 9 then Rehum the chancellor, Shimshai the scribe, and the rest of their companions, the Dinaites, and the Apharsathchites, the Tarpelites, the Apharsites, the Archevites, the Babylonians, the Shushanchites, the Dehaites, the Elamites, 
EZR   4\v 7 In the days of Artaxerxes, Bishlam, Mithredath, Tabeel, and the rest of his companions wrote to Artaxerxes king of Persia; and the writing of the letter was written in Syrian and delivered in the Syrian language. 
EZR   4\v 11 This is the copy of the letter that they sent: 
EZR   4\v 9 Then Rehum the chancellor, Shimshai the scribe, and the rest of their companions, the Dinaites, and the Apharsathchites, the Tarpelites, the Apharsites, the Archevites, the Babylonians, the Shushanchites, the Dehaites, the Elamites, 
EZR   4\v 12 Be it known to the king that the Jews who came up from you have come to us to Jerusalem. They are building the rebellious and bad city, and have finished the walls, and repaired the foundations. 
EZR   4\v 11 This is the copy of the letter that they sent: 
EZR   4\v 14 Now because we eat the salt of the palace, and it is not appropriate for us to see the king’s dishonor, therefore we have sent and informed the king, 
EZR   4\v 12 Be it known to the king that the Jews who came up from you have come to us to Jerusalem. They are building the rebellious and bad city, and have finished the walls and repaired the foundations. 
EZR   4\v 16 We inform the king that if this city is built and the walls finished, then you will have no possession beyond the River. 
EZR   4\v 14 Now because we eat the salt of the palace and it is not appropriate for us to see the king’s dishonor, therefore we have sent and informed the king, 
EZR   4\v 17 Then the king sent an answer to Rehum the chancellor, and to Shimshai the scribe, and to the rest of their companions who live in Samaria, and in the rest of the country beyond the River: 
EZR   4\v 16 We inform the king that if this city is built and the walls finished, then you will have no possession beyond the River. 
EZR   4\v 18 The letter which you sent to us has been plainly read before me. 
EZR   4\v 17 Then the king sent an answer to Rehum the chancellor, and to Shimshai the scribe, and to the rest of their companions who live in Samaria, and in the rest of the country beyond the River: 
EZR   4\v 20 There have also been mighty kings over Jerusalem, who have ruled over all the country beyond the River; and tribute, custom, and toll, was paid to them. 
EZR   4\v 18 The letter which you sent to us has been plainly read before me. 
EZR   4\v 22 Be careful that you not be slack doing so. Why should damage grow to the hurt of the kings? 
EZR   4\v 20 There have also been mighty kings over Jerusalem who have ruled over all the country beyond the River; and tribute, custom, and toll was paid to them. 
EZR   4\v 23 Then when the copy of king Artaxerxes’ letter was read before Rehum, Shimshai the scribe, and their companions, they went in haste to Jerusalem to the Jews, and made them to cease by force of arms. 
EZR   4\v 22 Be careful that you not be slack doing so. Why should damage grow to the hurt of the kings? 
EZR   5EZR   4\v 23 Then when the copy of king Artaxerxes’ letter was read before Rehum, Shimshai the scribe, and their companions, they went in haste to Jerusalem to the Jews, and made them to cease by force of arms. 
EZR   5\v 1 Now the prophets, Haggai the prophet and Zechariah the son of Iddo, prophesied to the Jews who were in Judah and Jerusalem. They prophesied to them in the name of the God of Israel. 
EZR   5EZR   5\v 3 At the same time Tattenai, the governor beyond the River came to them, with Shetharbozenai, and their companions, and asked them, “Who gave you a decree to build this house, and to finish this wall?” 
EZR   5\v 1 Now the prophets, Haggai the prophet and Zechariah the son of Iddo, prophesied to the Jews who were in Judah and Jerusalem. They prophesied to them in the name of the God of Israel. 
EZR   5\v 5 But the eye of their God was on the elders of the Jews, and they didn’t make them cease, until the matter should come to Darius, and an answer should be returned by letter concerning it. 
EZR   5\v 3 At the same time Tattenai, the governor beyond the River, came to them, with Shetharbozenai and their companions, and asked them, “Who gave you a decree to build this house and to finish this wall?” 
EZR   5\v 7 They sent a letter to him, in which was written: 
EZR   5\v 5 But the eye of their God was on the elders of the Jews, and they didn’t make them cease until the matter should come to Darius, and an answer should be returned by letter concerning it. 
EZR   5\v 8 Be it known to the king that we went into the province of Judah, to the house of the great God, which is built with great stones, and timber is laid in the walls. This work goes on with diligence and prospers in their hands. 
EZR   5\v 7 They sent a letter to him, in which was written: 
EZR   5\v 10 We asked them their names also, to inform you that we might write the names of the men who were at their head. 
EZR   5\v 8 Be it known to the king that we went into the province of Judah, to the house of the great God, which is being built with great stones and timber is laid in the walls. This work goes on with diligence and prospers in their hands. 
EZR   5\v 12 But after our fathers had provoked the God of heaven to wrath, he gave them into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, the Chaldean, who destroyed this house, and carried the people away into Babylon. 
EZR   5\v 10 We asked them their names also, to inform you that we might write the names of the men who were at their head. 
EZR   5\v 14 The gold and silver vessels of God’s house, which Nebuchadnezzar took out of the temple that was in Jerusalem, and brought into the temple of Babylon, those Cyrus the king also took out of the temple of Babylon, and they were delivered to one whose name was Sheshbazzar, whom he had made governor. 
EZR   5\v 12 But after our fathers had provoked the God of heaven to wrath, he gave them into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, the Chaldean, who destroyed this house and carried the people away into Babylon. 
EZR   5\v 16 Then the same Sheshbazzar came and laid the foundations of God’s house which is in Jerusalem. Since that time even until now it has been being built, and yet it is not completed. 
EZR   5\v 14 The gold and silver vessels of God’s house, which Nebuchadnezzar took out of the temple that was in Jerusalem and brought into the temple of Babylon, those Cyrus the king also took out of the temple of Babylon, and they were delivered to one whose name was Sheshbazzar, whom he had made governor. 
EZR   6EZR   5\v 16 Then the same Sheshbazzar came and laid the foundations of God’s house which is in Jerusalem. Since that time even until now it has been being built, and yet it is not completed. 
EZR   6\v 1 Then Darius the king made a decree, and the house of the archives, where the treasures were laid up in Babylon, was searched. 
EZR   6EZR   6\v 3 In the first year of Cyrus the king, Cyrus the king made a decree: Concerning God’s house at Jerusalem, let the house be built, the place where they offer sacrifices, and let its foundations be strongly laid; with its height sixty cubits,\f + \fr 6:3  \ft A cubit is the length from the tip of the middle finger to the elbow on a man’s arm, or about 18 inches or 46 centimeters.\f* and its width sixty cubits; 
EZR   6\v 1 Then Darius the king made a decree, and the house of the archives, where the treasures were laid up in Babylon, was searched. 
EZR   6\v 5 Also let the gold and silver vessels of God’s house, which Nebuchadnezzar took out of the temple which is at Jerusalem, and brought to Babylon, be restored and brought again to the temple which is at Jerusalem, everything to its place. You shall put them in God’s house. 
EZR   6\v 3 In the first year of Cyrus the king, Cyrus the king made a decree: Concerning God’s house at Jerusalem, let the house be built, the place where they offer sacrifices, and let its foundations be strongly laid, with its height sixty cubits\f + \fr 6:3  \ft A cubit is the length from the tip of the middle finger to the elbow on a man’s arm, or about 18 inches or 46 centimeters.\f* and its width sixty cubits; 
EZR   6\v 7 Leave the work of this house of God alone; let the governor of the Jews and the elders of the Jews build this house of God in its place. 
EZR   6\v 5 Also let the gold and silver vessels of God’s house, which Nebuchadnezzar took out of the temple which is at Jerusalem and brought to Babylon, be restored and brought again to the temple which is at Jerusalem, everything to its place. You shall put them in God’s house. 
EZR   6\v 9 That which they have need of, including young bulls, rams, and lambs, for burnt offerings to the God of heaven; also wheat, salt, wine, and oil, according to the word of the priests who are at Jerusalem, let it be given them day by day without fail; 
EZR   6\v 7 Leave the work of this house of God alone; let the governor of the Jews and the elders of the Jews build this house of God in its place. 
EZR   6\v 11 I have also made a decree that whoever alters this message, let a beam be pulled out from his house, and let him be lifted up and fastened on it; and let his house be made a dunghill for this. 
EZR   6\v 9 That which they have need of, including young bulls, rams, and lambs, for burnt offerings to the God of heaven; also wheat, salt, wine, and oil, according to the word of the priests who are at Jerusalem, let it be given them day by day without fail, 
EZR   6\v 13 Then Tattenai, the governor beyond the River, Shetharbozenai, and their companions did accordingly with all diligence, because Darius the king had sent a decree. 
EZR   6\v 11 I have also made a decree that whoever alters this message, let a beam be pulled out from his house, and let him be lifted up and fastened on it; and let his house be made a dunghill for this. 
EZR   6\v 15 This house was finished on the third day of the month Adar, which was in the sixth year of the reign of Darius the king. 
EZR   6\v 13 Then Tattenai, the governor beyond the River, Shetharbozenai, and their companions did accordingly with all diligence, because Darius the king had sent a decree. 
EZR   6\v 17 They offered at the dedication of this house of God one hundred bulls, two hundred rams, four hundred lambs; and for a sin offering for all Israel, twelve male goats, according to the number of the tribes of Israel. 
EZR   6\v 15 This house was finished on the third day of the month Adar, which was in the sixth year of the reign of Darius the king. 
EZR   6\v 19 The children of the captivity kept the Passover on the fourteenth day of the first month. 
EZR   6\v 17 They offered at the dedication of this house of God one hundred bulls, two hundred rams, four hundred lambs; and for a sin offering for all Israel, twelve male goats, according to the number of the tribes of Israel. 
EZR   6\v 21 The children of Israel who had returned out of the captivity, and all who had separated themselves to them from the filthiness of the nations of the land, to seek Yahweh, the God of Israel, ate, 
EZR   6\v 19 The children of the captivity kept the Passover on the fourteenth day of the first month. 
EZR   7EZR   6\v 21 The children of Israel who had returned out of the captivity, and all who had separated themselves to them from the filthiness of the nations of the land to seek Yahweh, the God of Israel, ate, 
EZR   7\v 1 Now after these things, in the reign of Artaxerxes king of Persia, Ezra the son of Seraiah, the son of Azariah, the son of Hilkiah, 
EZR   7EZR   7\v 3 the son of Amariah, the son of Azariah, the son of Meraioth, 
EZR   7\v 1 Now after these things, in the reign of Artaxerxes king of Persia, Ezra the son of Seraiah, the son of Azariah, the son of Hilkiah, 
EZR   7\v 5 the son of Abishua, the son of Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the chief priest— 
EZR   7\v 3 the son of Amariah, the son of Azariah, the son of Meraioth, 
EZR   7\v 7 Some of the children of Israel, including some of the priests, the Levites, the singers, the gatekeepers, and the temple servants went up to Jerusalem in the seventh year of Artaxerxes the king. 
EZR   7\v 5 the son of Abishua, the son of Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the chief priest— 
EZR   7\v 9 For on the first day of the first month he began to go up from Babylon; and on the first day of the fifth month he came to Jerusalem, according to the good hand of his God on him. 
EZR   7\v 7 Some of the children of Israel, including some of the priests, the Levites, the singers, the gatekeepers, and the temple servants went up to Jerusalem in the seventh year of Artaxerxes the king. 
EZR   7\v 11 Now this is the copy of the letter that King Artaxerxes gave to Ezra the priest, the scribe, even the scribe of the words of Yahweh’s commandments, and of his statutes to Israel: 
EZR   7\v 9 For on the first day of the first month he began to go up from Babylon; and on the first day of the fifth month he came to Jerusalem, according to the good hand of his God on him. 
EZR   7\v 12 Artaxerxes, king of kings, 
EZR   7\v 11 Now this is the copy of the letter that King Artaxerxes gave to Ezra the priest, the scribe, even the scribe of the words of Yahweh’s commandments, and of his statutes to Israel: 
EZR   7\v 13 I make a decree, that all those of the people of Israel, and their priests and the Levites, in my realm, who intend of their own free will to go to Jerusalem, go with you. 
EZR   7\v 12 Artaxerxes, king of kings, 
EZR   7\v 15 and to carry the silver and gold, which the king and his counselors have freely offered to the God of Israel, whose habitation is in Jerusalem, 
EZR   7\v 13 I make a decree that all those of the people of Israel and their priests and the Levites in my realm, who intend of their own free will to go to Jerusalem, go with you. 
EZR   7\v 17 therefore you shall with all diligence buy with this money bulls, rams, lambs, with their meal offerings and their drink offerings, and shall offer them on the altar of the house of your God which is in Jerusalem. 
EZR   7\v 15 and to carry the silver and gold, which the king and his counselors have freely offered to the God of Israel, whose habitation is in Jerusalem, 
EZR   7\v 19 The vessels that are given to you for the service of the house of your God, deliver before the God of Jerusalem. 
EZR   7\v 17 Therefore you shall with all diligence buy with this money bulls, rams, and lambs with their meal offerings and their drink offerings, and shall offer them on the altar of the house of your God which is in Jerusalem. 
EZR   7\v 21 I, even I Artaxerxes the king, make a decree to all the treasurers who are beyond the River, that whatever Ezra the priest, the scribe of the law of the God of heaven, requires of you, it shall be done with all diligence, 
EZR   7\v 19 The vessels that are given to you for the service of the house of your God, deliver before the God of Jerusalem. 
EZR   7\v 23 Whatever is commanded by the God of heaven, let it be done exactly for the house of the God of heaven; for why should there be wrath against the realm of the king and his sons? 
EZR   7\v 21 I, even I, Artaxerxes the king, make a decree to all the treasurers who are beyond the River, that whatever Ezra the priest, the scribe of the law of the God of heaven, requires of you, it shall be done with all diligence, 
EZR   7\v 25 You, Ezra, according to the wisdom of your God that is in your hand, appoint magistrates and judges, who may judge all the people who are beyond the River, who all know the laws of your God; and teach him who doesn’t know them. 
EZR   7\v 23 Whatever is commanded by the God of heaven, let it be done exactly for the house of the God of heaven; for why should there be wrath against the realm of the king and his sons? 
EZR   7\v 27 Blessed be Yahweh, the God of our fathers, who has put such a thing as this in the king’s heart, to beautify Yahweh’s house which is in Jerusalem; 
EZR   7\v 25 You, Ezra, according to the wisdom of your God that is in your hand, appoint magistrates and judges who may judge all the people who are beyond the River, who all know the laws of your God; and teach him who doesn’t know them. 
EZR   8EZR   7\v 27 Blessed be Yahweh, the God of our fathers, who has put such a thing as this in the king’s heart, to beautify Yahweh’s house which is in Jerusalem; 
EZR   8\v 1 Now these are the heads of their fathers’ households, and this is the genealogy of those who went up with me from Babylon, in the reign of Artaxerxes the king: 
EZR   8EZR   8\v 2 Of the sons of Phinehas, Gershom. 
EZR   8\v 1 Now these are the heads of their fathers’ households, and this is the genealogy of those who went up with me from Babylon, in the reign of Artaxerxes the king: 
EZR   8\v 3 Of the sons of Shecaniah, of the sons of Parosh, Zechariah; and with him were listed by genealogy of the males one hundred fifty. 
EZR   8\v 2 Of the sons of Phinehas, Gershom. 
EZR   8\v 4 Of the sons of Pahathmoab, Eliehoenai the son of Zerahiah; and with him two hundred males. 
EZR   8\v 3 Of the sons of Shecaniah, of the sons of Parosh, Zechariah; and with him were listed by genealogy of the males one hundred fifty. 
EZR   8\v 5 Of the sons of Shecaniah, the son of Jahaziel; and with him three hundred males. 
EZR   8\v 4 Of the sons of Pahathmoab, Eliehoenai the son of Zerahiah; and with him two hundred males. 
EZR   8\v 6 Of the sons of Adin, Ebed the son of Jonathan; and with him fifty males. 
EZR   8\v 5 Of the sons of Shecaniah, the son of Jahaziel; and with him three hundred males. 
EZR   8\v 7 Of the sons of Elam, Jeshaiah the son of Athaliah; and with him seventy males. 
EZR   8\v 6 Of the sons of Adin, Ebed the son of Jonathan; and with him fifty males. 
EZR   8\v 8 Of the sons of Shephatiah, Zebadiah the son of Michael; and with him eighty males. 
EZR   8\v 7 Of the sons of Elam, Jeshaiah the son of Athaliah; and with him seventy males. 
EZR   8\v 9 Of the sons of Joab, Obadiah the son of Jehiel; and with him two hundred eighteen males. 
EZR   8\v 8 Of the sons of Shephatiah, Zebadiah the son of Michael; and with him eighty males. 
EZR   8\v 10 Of the sons of Shelomith, the son of Josiphiah; and with him one hundred sixty males. 
EZR   8\v 9 Of the sons of Joab, Obadiah the son of Jehiel; and with him two hundred eighteen males. 
EZR   8\v 11 Of the sons of Bebai, Zechariah the son of Bebai; and with him twenty-eight males. 
EZR   8\v 10 Of the sons of Shelomith, the son of Josiphiah; and with him one hundred sixty males. 
EZR   8\v 12 Of the sons of Azgad, Johanan the son of Hakkatan; and with him one hundred ten males. 
EZR   8\v 11 Of the sons of Bebai, Zechariah the son of Bebai; and with him twenty-eight males. 
EZR   8\v 13 Of the sons of Adonikam, who were the last; and these are their names: Eliphelet, Jeuel, and Shemaiah; and with them sixty males. 
EZR   8\v 12 Of the sons of Azgad, Johanan the son of Hakkatan; and with him one hundred ten males. 
EZR   8\v 14 Of the sons of Bigvai, Uthai and Zabbud; and with them seventy males. 
EZR   8\v 13 Of the sons of Adonikam, who were the last, their names are: Eliphelet, Jeuel, and Shemaiah; and with them sixty males. 
EZR   8\v 16 Then I sent for Eliezer, for Ariel, for Shemaiah, for Elnathan, for Jarib, for Elnathan, for Nathan, for Zechariah, and for Meshullam, chief men; also for Joiarib and for Elnathan, who were teachers. 
EZR   8\v 14 Of the sons of Bigvai, Uthai and Zabbud; and with them seventy males. 
EZR   8\v 18 According to the good hand of our God on us they brought us a man of discretion, of the sons of Mahli, the son of Levi, the son of Israel; and Sherebiah, with his sons and his brothers, eighteen; 
EZR   8\v 16 Then I sent for Eliezer, for Ariel, for Shemaiah, for Elnathan, for Jarib, for Elnathan, for Nathan, for Zechariah, and for Meshullam, chief men; also for Joiarib and for Elnathan, who were teachers. 
EZR   8\v 20 and of the temple servants, whom David and the princes had given for the service of the Levites, two hundred twenty temple servants. All of them were mentioned by name. 
EZR   8\v 18 According to the good hand of our God on us they brought us a man of discretion, of the sons of Mahli, the son of Levi, the son of Israel, namely Sherebiah, with his sons and his brothers, eighteen; 
EZR   8\v 22 For I was ashamed to ask of the king a band of soldiers and horsemen to help us against the enemy on the way, because we had spoken to the king, saying, “The hand of our God is on all those who seek him, for good; but his power and his wrath is against all those who forsake him.” 
EZR   8\v 20 and of the temple servants, whom David and the princes had given for the service of the Levites, two hundred twenty temple servants. All of them were mentioned by name. 
EZR   8\v 24 Then I set apart twelve of the chiefs of the priests, even Sherebiah, Hashabiah, and ten of their brothers with them, 
EZR   8\v 22 For I was ashamed to ask of the king a band of soldiers and horsemen to help us against the enemy on the way, because we had spoken to the king, saying, “The hand of our God is on all those who seek him, for good; but his power and his wrath is against all those who forsake him.” 
EZR   8\v 26 I weighed into their hand six hundred fifty talents of silver,\f + \fr 8:26  \ft A talent is about 30 kilograms or 66 pounds or 965 Troy ounces\f* one hundred talents of silver vessels; one hundred talents of gold, 
EZR   8\v 24 Then I set apart twelve of the chiefs of the priests, even Sherebiah, Hashabiah, and ten of their brothers with them, 
EZR   8\v 28 I said to them, “You are holy to Yahweh, and the vessels are holy. The silver and the gold are a free will offering to Yahweh, the God of your fathers. 
EZR   8\v 26 I weighed into their hand six hundred fifty talents of silver,\f + \fr 8:26  \ft A talent is about 30 kilograms or 66 pounds or 965 Troy ounces\f* one hundred talents of silver vessels, one hundred talents of gold, 
EZR   8\v 30 So the priests and the Levites received the weight of the silver and the gold, and the vessels, to bring them to Jerusalem to the house of our God. 
EZR   8\v 28 I said to them, “You are holy to Yahweh, and the vessels are holy. The silver and the gold are a free will offering to Yahweh, the God of your fathers. 
EZR   8\v 32 We came to Jerusalem, and stayed there three days. 
EZR   8\v 30 So the priests and the Levites received the weight of the silver, the gold, and the vessels, to bring them to Jerusalem to the house of our God. 
EZR   8\v 34 everything by number and by weight; and all the weight was written at that time. 
EZR   8\v 32 We came to Jerusalem, and stayed there three days. 
EZR   9\v 36 They delivered the king’s commissions to the king’s local governors, and to the governors beyond the River. So they supported the people and God’s house. 
EZR   8\v 34 Everything was counted and weighed; and all the weight was written at that time. 
EZR   9\v 1 Now when these things were done, the princes came near to me, saying, “The people of Israel, the priests, and the Levites, have not separated themselves from the peoples of the lands, following their abominations, even those of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Jebusites, the Ammonites, the Moabites, the Egyptians, and the Amorites. 
EZR   9\v 36 They delivered the king’s commissions to the king’s local governors and to the governors beyond the River. So they supported the people and God’s house. 
EZR   9\v 3 When I heard this thing, I tore my garment and my robe, and pulled the hair out of my head and of my beard, and sat down confounded. 
EZR   9\v 1 Now when these things were done, the princes came near to me, saying, “The people of Israel, the priests, and the Levites have not separated themselves from the peoples of the lands, following their abominations, even those of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Jebusites, the Ammonites, the Moabites, the Egyptians, and the Amorites. 
EZR   9\v 5 At the evening offering I rose up from my humiliation, even with my garment and my robe torn; and I fell on my knees, and spread out my hands to Yahweh my God; 
EZR   9\v 3 When I heard this thing, I tore my garment and my robe, and pulled the hair out of my head and of my beard, and sat down confounded. 
EZR   9\v 7 Since the days of our fathers we have been exceedingly guilty to this day; and for our iniquities we, our kings, and our priests, have been delivered into the hand of the kings of the lands, to the sword, to captivity, to plunder, and to confusion of face, as it is this day. 
EZR   9\v 5 At the evening offering I rose up from my humiliation, even with my garment and my robe torn; and I fell on my knees, and spread out my hands to Yahweh my God; 
EZR   9\v 9 For we are bondservants; yet our God has not forsaken us in our bondage, but has extended loving kindness to us in the sight of the kings of Persia, to revive us, to set up the house of our God, and to repair its ruins, and to give us a wall in Judah and in Jerusalem. 
EZR   9\v 7 Since the days of our fathers we have been exceedingly guilty to this day; and for our iniquities we, our kings, and our priests have been delivered into the hand of the kings of the lands, to the sword, to captivity, to plunder, and to confusion of face, as it is this day. 
EZR   9\v 11 which you have commanded by your servants the prophets, saying, ‘The land, to which you go to possess it, is an unclean land through the uncleanness of the peoples of the lands, through their abominations, which have filled it from one end to another with their filthiness. 
EZR   9\v 9 For we are bondservants; yet our God has not forsaken us in our bondage, but has extended loving kindness to us in the sight of the kings of Persia, to revive us, to set up the house of our God, and to repair its ruins, and to give us a wall in Judah and in Jerusalem. 
EZR   9\v 13 “After all that has come on us for our evil deeds, and for our great guilt, since you, our God, have punished us less than our iniquities deserve, and have given us such a remnant, 
EZR   9\v 11 which you have commanded by your servants the prophets, saying, ‘The land to which you go to possess is an unclean land through the uncleanness of the peoples of the lands, through their abominations, which have filled it from one end to another with their filthiness. 
EZR  10\v 15 Yahweh, the God of Israel, you are righteous; for we are left a remnant that has escaped, as it is today. Behold,\f + \fr 9:15  \ft “Behold”, from “הִנֵּה”, means look at, take notice, observe, see, or gaze at. It is often used as an interjection.\f* we are before you in our guiltiness; for no one can stand before you because of this.” 
EZR   9\v 13 “After all that has come on us for our evil deeds and for our great guilt, since you, our God, have punished us less than our iniquities deserve, and have given us such a remnant, 
EZR  10\v 1 Now while Ezra prayed and made confession, weeping and casting himself down before God’s house, there was gathered together to him out of Israel a very great assembly of men and women and children; for the people wept very bitterly. 
EZR  10\v 15 Yahweh, the God of Israel, you are righteous; for we are left a remnant that has escaped, as it is today. Behold,\f + \fr 9:15  \ft “Behold”, from “הִנֵּה”, means look at, take notice, observe, see, or gaze at. It is often used as an interjection.\f* we are before you in our guiltiness; for no one can stand before you because of this.” 
EZR  10\v 3 Now therefore let’s make a covenant with our God to put away all the wives, and those who are born of them, according to the counsel of my lord, and of those who tremble at the commandment of our God. Let it be done according to the law. 
EZR  10\v 1 Now while Ezra prayed and made confession, weeping and casting himself down before God’s house, there was gathered together to him out of Israel a very great assembly of men and women and children; for the people wept very bitterly. 
EZR  10\v 5 Then Ezra arose, and made the chiefs of the priests, the Levites, and all Israel, to swear that they would do according to this word. So they swore. 
EZR  10\v 3 Now therefore let’s make a covenant with our God to put away all the wives and those who are born of them, according to the counsel of my lord and of those who tremble at the commandment of our God. Let it be done according to the law. 
EZR  10\v 7 They made a proclamation throughout Judah and Jerusalem to all the children of the captivity, that they should gather themselves together to Jerusalem; 
EZR  10\v 5 Then Ezra arose, and made the chiefs of the priests, the Levites, and all Israel to swear that they would do according to this word. So they swore. 
EZR  10\v 9 Then all the men of Judah and Benjamin gathered themselves together to Jerusalem within the three days. It was the ninth month, on the twentieth day of the month; and all the people sat in the wide place in front of God’s house, trembling because of this matter, and because of the great rain. 
EZR  10\v 7 They made a proclamation throughout Judah and Jerusalem to all the children of the captivity, that they should gather themselves together to Jerusalem; 
EZR  10\v 11 Now therefore make confession to Yahweh, the God of your fathers, and do his pleasure; and separate yourselves from the peoples of the land, and from the foreign women.” 
EZR  10\v 9 Then all the men of Judah and Benjamin gathered themselves together to Jerusalem within the three days. It was the ninth month, on the twentieth day of the month; and all the people sat in the wide place in front of God’s house, trembling because of this matter, and because of the great rain. 
EZR  10\v 13 But the people are many, and it is a time of much rain, and we are not able to stand outside. This is not a work of one day or two, for we have greatly transgressed in this matter. 
EZR  10\v 11 Now therefore make confession to Yahweh, the God of your fathers and do his pleasure. Separate yourselves from the peoples of the land and from the foreign women.” 
EZR  10\v 15 Only Jonathan the son of Asahel and Jahzeiah the son of Tikvah stood up against this; and Meshullam and Shabbethai the Levite helped them. 
EZR  10\v 13 But the people are many, and it is a time of much rain, and we are not able to stand outside. This is not a work of one day or two, for we have greatly transgressed in this matter. 
EZR  10\v 17 They finished with all the men who had married foreign women by the first day of the first month. 
EZR  10\v 15 Only Jonathan the son of Asahel and Jahzeiah the son of Tikvah stood up against this; and Meshullam and Shabbethai the Levite helped them. 
EZR  10\v 19 They gave their hand that they would put away their wives; and being guilty, they offered a ram of the flock for their guilt. 
EZR  10\v 17 They finished with all the men who had married foreign women by the first day of the first month. 
EZR  10\v 20 Of the sons of Immer: Hanani and Zebadiah. 
EZR  10\v 19 They gave their hand that they would put away their wives; and being guilty, they offered a ram of the flock for their guilt. 
EZR  10\v 21 Of the sons of Harim: Maaseiah, and Elijah, and Shemaiah, and Jehiel, and Uzziah. 
EZR  10\v 20 Of the sons of Immer: Hanani and Zebadiah. 
EZR  10\v 22 Of the sons of Pashhur: Elioenai, Maaseiah, Ishmael, Nethanel, Jozabad, and Elasah. 
EZR  10\v 21 Of the sons of Harim: Maaseiah, Elijah, Shemaiah, Jehiel, and Uzziah. 
EZR  10\v 23 Of the Levites: Jozabad, and Shimei, and Kelaiah (also called Kelita), Pethahiah, Judah, and Eliezer. 
EZR  10\v 22 Of the sons of Pashhur: Elioenai, Maaseiah, Ishmael, Nethanel, Jozabad, and Elasah. 
EZR  10\v 24 Of the singers: Eliashib. 
EZR  10\v 23 Of the Levites: Jozabad, Shimei, Kelaiah (also called Kelita), Pethahiah, Judah, and Eliezer. 
EZR  10\v 25 Of Israel: Of the sons of Parosh: Ramiah, and Izziah, and Malchijah, and Mijamin, and Eleazar, and Malchijah, and Benaiah. 
EZR  10\v 24 Of the singers: Eliashib. 
EZR  10\v 26 Of the sons of Elam: Mattaniah, Zechariah, and Jehiel, and Abdi, and Jeremoth, and Elijah. 
EZR  10\v 25 Of Israel: Of the sons of Parosh: Ramiah, Izziah, Malchijah, Mijamin, Eleazar, Malchijah, and Benaiah. 
EZR  10\v 27 Of the sons of Zattu: Elioenai, Eliashib, Mattaniah, and Jeremoth, and Zabad, and Aziza. 
EZR  10\v 26 Of the sons of Elam: Mattaniah, Zechariah, Jehiel, Abdi, Jeremoth, and Elijah. 
EZR  10\v 28 Of the sons of Bebai: Jehohanan, Hananiah, Zabbai, Athlai. 
EZR  10\v 27 Of the sons of Zattu: Elioenai, Eliashib, Mattaniah, Jeremoth, Zabad, and Aziza. 
EZR  10\v 29 Of the sons of Bani: Meshullam, Malluch, and Adaiah, Jashub, and Sheal, Jeremoth. 
EZR  10\v 28 Of the sons of Bebai: Jehohanan, Hananiah, Zabbai, and Athlai. 
EZR  10\v 30 Of the sons of Pahathmoab: Adna, and Chelal, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattaniah, Bezalel, and Binnui, and Manasseh. 
EZR  10\v 29 Of the sons of Bani: Meshullam, Malluch, Adaiah, Jashub, Sheal, and Jeremoth. 
EZR  10\v 31 Of the sons of Harim: Eliezer, Isshijah, Malchijah, Shemaiah, Shimeon, 
EZR  10\v 30 Of the sons of Pahathmoab: Adna, Chelal, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattaniah, Bezalel, Binnui, and Manasseh. 
EZR  10\v 33 Of the sons of Hashum: Mattenai, Mattattah, Zabad, Eliphelet, Jeremai, Manasseh, Shimei. 
EZR  10\v 31 Of the sons of Harim: Eliezer, Isshijah, Malchijah, Shemaiah, Shimeon, 
EZR  10\v 34 Of the sons of Bani: Maadai, Amram, and Uel, 
EZR  10\v 33 Of the sons of Hashum: Mattenai, Mattattah, Zabad, Eliphelet, Jeremai, Manasseh, and Shimei. 
EZR  10\v 36 Vaniah, Meremoth, Eliashib, 
EZR  10\v 34 Of the sons of Bani: Maadai, Amram, Uel, 
EZR  10\v 38 and Bani, and Binnui, Shimei, 
EZR  10\v 36 Vaniah, Meremoth, Eliashib, 
EZR  10\v 40 Machnadebai, Shashai, Sharai, 
EZR  10\v 38 Bani, Binnui, Shimei, 
EZR  10\v 42 Shallum, Amariah, Joseph. 
EZR  10\v 40 Machnadebai, Shashai, Sharai, 
EZR  10\v 43 Of the sons of Nebo: Jeiel, Mattithiah, Zabad, Zebina, Iddo, and Joel, Benaiah. 
EZR  10\v 42 Shallum, Amariah, and Joseph. 
EZR  10\v 44 All these had taken foreign wives; and some of them had wives by whom they had children. EZR  10\v 43 Of the sons of Nebo: Jeiel, Mattithiah, Zabad, Zebina, Iddo, Joel, and Benaiah. 
NEH   1\v 5 and said, “I beg you, Yahweh,\f + \fr 1:5  \ft “Yahweh” is God’s proper Name, sometimes rendered “LORD” (all caps) in other translations.\f* the God of heaven, the great and awesome God, who keeps covenant and loving kindness with those who love him and keep his commandments: 
NEH   1\v 5 and said, “I beg you, Yahweh,\f + \fr 1:5  \ft “Yahweh” is God’s proper Name, sometimes rendered “LORD” (all caps) in other translations.\f* the God of heaven, the great and awesome God who keeps covenant and loving kindness with those who love him and keep his commandments, 
NEH   2\v 11 Lord,\f + \fr 1:11  \ft The word translated “Lord” is “Adonai.”\f* I beg you, let your ear be attentive now to the prayer of your servant, and to the prayer of your servants, who delight to fear your name; and please prosper your servant today, and grant him mercy in the sight of this man.” 
NEH   2\v 11 Lord,\f + \fr 1:11  \ft The word translated “Lord” is “Adonai.”\f* I beg you, let your ear be attentive now to the prayer of your servant, and to the prayer of your servants who delight to fear your name; and please prosper your servant today, and grant him mercy in the sight of this man.” 
NEH   2\v 5 I said to the king, “If it pleases the king, and if your servant has found favor in your sight, that you would send me to Judah, to the city of my fathers’ tombs, that I may build it.” 
NEH   2\v 5 I said to the king, “If it pleases the king, and if your servant has found favor in your sight, I ask that you would send me to Judah, to the city of my fathers’ tombs, that I may build it.” 
NEH   2\v 13 I went out by night by the valley gate, even toward the jackal’s well, then to the dung gate, and inspected the walls of Jerusalem, which were broken down, and its gates were consumed with fire. 
NEH   2\v 13 I went out by night by the valley gate toward the jackal’s well, then to the dung gate; and I inspected the walls of Jerusalem, which were broken down, and its gates were consumed with fire. 
NEH   2\v 15 Then I went up in the night by the brook, and inspected the wall; and I turned back, and entered by the valley gate, and so returned. 
NEH   2\v 15 Then I went up in the night by the brook and inspected the wall; and I turned back, and entered by the valley gate, and so returned. 
NEH   2\v 19 But when Sanballat the Horonite, Tobiah the Ammonite servant, and Geshem the Arabian, heard it, they ridiculed us, and despised us, and said, “What is this thing that you are doing? Will you rebel against the king?” 
NEH   2\v 19 But when Sanballat the Horonite, Tobiah the Ammonite servant, and Geshem the Arabian, heard it, they ridiculed us and despised us, and said, “What is this thing that you are doing? Will you rebel against the king?” 
NEH   3\v 7 Next to them, Melatiah the Gibeonite, and Jadon the Meronothite, the men of Gibeon and of Mizpah, repaired the residence of the governor beyond the River. 
NEH   3\v 7 Next to them, Melatiah the Gibeonite and Jadon the Meronothite, the men of Gibeon and of Mizpah, repaired the residence of the governor beyond the River. 
NEH   3\v 11 Malchijah the son of Harim, and Hasshub the son of Pahathmoab, repaired another portion, and the tower of the furnaces. 
NEH   3\v 11 Malchijah the son of Harim and Hasshub the son of Pahathmoab repaired another portion and the tower of the furnaces. 
NEH   3\v 15 Shallun the son of Colhozeh, the ruler of the district of Mizpah repaired the spring gate. He built it, and covered it, and set up its doors, its bolts, and its bars, and the wall of the pool of Shelah by the king’s garden, even to the stairs that go down from David’s city. 
NEH   3\v 15 Shallun the son of Colhozeh, the ruler of the district of Mizpah, repaired the spring gate. He built it, covered it, and set up its doors, its bolts, and its bars; and he repaired the wall of the pool of Shelah by the king’s garden, even to the stairs that go down from David’s city. 
NEH   3\v 17 After him, the Levites, Rehum the son of Bani made repairs. Next to him, Hashabiah, the ruler of half the district of Keilah, made repairs for his district. 
NEH   3\v 17 After him, the Levites—Rehum the son of Bani made repairs. Next to him, Hashabiah, the ruler of half the district of Keilah, made repairs for his district. 
NEH   3\v 19 Next to him, Ezer the son of Jeshua, the ruler of Mizpah, repaired another portion, across from the ascent to the armory at the turning of the wall. 
NEH   3\v 19 Next to him, Ezer the son of Jeshua, the ruler of Mizpah, repaired another portion across from the ascent to the armory at the turning of the wall. 
NEH   3\v 29 After them, Zadok the son of Immer made repairs across from his own house. After him, Shemaiah the son of Shecaniah, the keeper of the east gate made repairs. 
NEH   3\v 29 After them, Zadok the son of Immer made repairs across from his own house. After him, Shemaiah the son of Shecaniah, the keeper of the east gate, made repairs. 
NEH   3\v 31 After him, Malchijah, one of the goldsmiths to the house of the temple servants, and of the merchants, made repairs opposite the gate of Hammiphkad, and to the ascent of the corner. 
NEH   3\v 31 After him, Malchijah, one of the goldsmiths to the house of the temple servants, and of the merchants, made repairs opposite the gate of Hammiphkad and to the ascent of the corner. 
NEH   4\v 19 I said to the nobles, and to the rulers and to the rest of the people, “The work is great and large, and we are separated on the wall, far from one another. 
NEH   4\v 19 I said to the nobles, and to the rulers and to the rest of the people, “The work is great and widely spread out, and we are separated on the wall, far from one another. 
NEH   5\v 23 So neither I, nor my brothers, nor my servants, nor the men of the guard who followed me, none of us took off our clothes. Everyone took his weapon to the water. 
NEH   5\v 23 So neither I, nor my brothers, nor my servants, nor the men of the guard who followed me took off our clothes. Everyone took his weapon to the water. 
NEH   5\v 9 Also I said, “The thing that you do is not good. Shouldn’t you walk in the fear of our God, because of the reproach of the nations our enemies? 
NEH   5\v 9 Also I said, “The thing that you do is not good. Shouldn’t you walk in the fear of our God because of the reproach of the nations, our enemies? 
NEH   5\v 15 But the former governors who were before me were supported by the people, and took bread and wine from them, plus forty shekels\f + \fr 5:15  \ft A shekel is about 10 grams or about 0.35 ounces.\f* of silver; yes, even their servants ruled over the people; but I didn’t do so, because of the fear of God. 
NEH   5\v 15 But the former governors who were before me were supported by the people, and took bread and wine from them, plus forty shekels\f + \fr 5:15  \ft A shekel is about 10 grams or about 0.35 ounces.\f* of silver; yes, even their servants ruled over the people, but I didn’t do so, because of the fear of God. 
NEH   6\v 19 Remember me, my God, for good, all that I have done for this people. 
NEH   6\v 19 Remember me, my God, for all the good that I have done for this people. 
NEH   6\v 1 Now when it was reported to Sanballat, Tobiah, and to Geshem the Arabian, and to the rest of our enemies, that I had built the wall, and that there was no breach left in it (though even to that time I had not set up the doors in the gates) 
NEH   6\v 1 Now when it was reported to Sanballat, Tobiah, Geshem the Arabian, and to the rest of our enemies that I had built the wall, and that there was no breach left in it (though even to that time I had not set up the doors in the gates), 
NEH   6\v 3 I sent messengers to them, saying, “I am doing a great work, so that I can’t come down. Why should the work cease, while I leave it, and come down to you?” 
NEH   6\v 3 I sent messengers to them, saying, “I am doing a great work, so that I can’t come down. Why should the work cease while I leave it and come down to you?” 
NEH   7\v 1 Now when the wall was built, and I had set up the doors, and the gatekeepers and the singers and the Levites were appointed, 
NEH   7\v 1 Now when the wall was built and I had set up the doors, and the gatekeepers and the singers and the Levites were appointed, 
NEH   7\v 3 I said to them, “Don’t let the gates of Jerusalem be opened until the sun is hot; and while they stand guard, let them shut the doors, and you bar them: and appoint watches of the inhabitants of Jerusalem, everyone in his watch, with everyone near his house.” 
NEH   7\v 3 I said to them, “Don’t let the gates of Jerusalem be opened until the sun is hot; and while they stand guard, let them shut the doors, and you bar them; and appoint watches of the inhabitants of Jerusalem, everyone in his watch, with everyone near his house.” 
NEH   7\v 7 who came with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Azariah, Raamiah, Nahamani, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispereth, Bigvai, Nehum, Baanah. 
NEH   7\v 7 who came with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Azariah, Raamiah, Nahamani, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispereth, Bigvai, Nehum, and Baanah. 
NEH   8\v 73 So the priests, the Levites, the gatekeepers, the singers, some of the people, the temple servants, and all Israel, lived in their cities. 
NEH   8\v 73 So the priests, the Levites, the gatekeepers, the singers, some of the people, the temple servants, and all Israel lived in their cities. 
NEH   8\v 9 Nehemiah, who was the governor, and Ezra the priest and scribe, and the Levites who taught the people, said to all the people, “Today is holy to Yahweh your God. Don’t mourn, nor weep.” For all the people wept when they heard the words of the law. 
NEH   8\v 9 Nehemiah, who was the governor, Ezra the priest and scribe, and the Levites who taught the people said to all the people, “Today is holy to Yahweh your God. Don’t mourn, nor weep.” For all the people wept when they heard the words of the law. 
NEH   8\v 15 and that they should publish and proclaim in all their cities, and in Jerusalem, saying, “Go out to the mountain, and get olive branches, branches of wild olive, myrtle branches, palm branches, and branches of thick trees, to make temporary shelters,\f + \fr 8:15  \ft or, booths\f* as it is written.” 
NEH   8\v 15 and that they should publish and proclaim in all their cities and in Jerusalem, saying, “Go out to the mountain, and get olive branches, branches of wild olive, myrtle branches, palm branches, and branches of thick trees, to make temporary shelters,\f + \fr 8:15  \ft or, booths\f* as it is written.” 
NEH   8\v 17 All the assembly of those who had come back out of the captivity made temporary shelters,\f + \fr 8:17  \ft or, booths\f* and lived in the temporary shelters; for since the days of Joshua the son of Nun to that day the children of Israel had not done so. There was very great gladness. 
NEH   8\v 17 All the assembly of those who had come back out of the captivity made temporary shelters\f + \fr 8:17  \ft or, booths\f* and lived in the temporary shelters, for since the days of Joshua the son of Nun to that day the children of Israel had not done so. There was very great gladness. 
NEH   9\v 3 They stood up in their place, and read in the book of the law of Yahweh their God a fourth part of the day; and a fourth part they confessed, and worshiped Yahweh their God. 
NEH   9\v 3 They stood up in their place, and read in the book of the law of Yahweh their God a fourth part of the day; and a fourth part they confessed and worshiped Yahweh their God. 
NEH   9\v 23 You also multiplied their children as the stars of the sky, and brought them into the land concerning which you said to their fathers, that they should go in to possess it. 
NEH   9\v 23 You also multiplied their children as the stars of the sky, and brought them into the land concerning which you said to their fathers that they should go in to possess it. 
NEH  10\v 9 The Levites: namely, Jeshua the son of Azaniah, Binnui of the sons of Henadad, Kadmiel; 
NEH  10\v 9 The Levites: Jeshua the son of Azaniah, Binnui of the sons of Henadad, Kadmiel; 
NEH  10\v 29 joined with their brothers, their nobles, and entered into a curse, and into an oath, to walk in God’s law, which was given by Moses the servant of God, and to observe and do all the commandments of Yahweh our Lord, and his ordinances and his statutes; 
NEH  10\v 29 joined with their brothers, their nobles, and entered into a curse and into an oath, to walk in God’s law, which was given by Moses the servant of God, and to observe and do all the commandments of Yahweh our Lord, and his ordinances and his statutes; 
NEH  10\v 31 and if the peoples of the land bring wares or any grain on the Sabbath day to sell, that we would not buy from them on the Sabbath, or on a holy day; and that we would forego the seventh year, and the exaction of every debt. 
NEH  10\v 31 and if the peoples of the land bring wares or any grain on the Sabbath day to sell, that we would not buy from them on the Sabbath, or on a holy day; and that we would forego the seventh year crops and the exaction of every debt. 
NEH  10\v 33 for the show bread, for the continual meal offering, for the continual burnt offering, for the Sabbaths, for the new moons, for the set feasts, and for the holy things, and for the sin offerings to make atonement for Israel, and for all the work of the house of our God. 
NEH  10\v 33 for the show bread, for the continual meal offering, for the continual burnt offering, for the Sabbaths, for the new moons, for the set feasts, for the holy things, for the sin offerings to make atonement for Israel, and for all the work of the house of our God. 
NEH  10\v 35 and to bring the first fruits of our ground, and the first fruits of all fruit of all kinds of trees, year by year, to Yahweh’s house; 
NEH  10\v 35 and to bring the first fruits of our ground and the first fruits of all fruit of all kinds of trees, year by year, to Yahweh’s house; 
NEH  10\v 37 and that we should bring the first fruits of our dough, our wave offerings, the fruit of all kinds of trees, and the new wine and the oil, to the priests, to the rooms of the house of our God; and the tithes of our ground to the Levites; for they, the Levites, take the tithes in all the cities of our tillage. 
NEH  10\v 37 and that we should bring the first fruits of our dough, our wave offerings, the fruit of all kinds of trees, and the new wine and the oil, to the priests, to the rooms of the house of our God; and the tithes of our ground to the Levites; for they, the Levites, take the tithes in all our farming villages. 
NEH  11\v 39 For the children of Israel and the children of Levi shall bring the wave offering of the grain, of the new wine, and of the oil, to the rooms, where the vessels of the sanctuary are, and the priests who minister, with the gatekeepers and the singers. We will not forsake the house of our God. 
NEH  11\v 39 For the children of Israel and the children of Levi shall bring the wave offering of the grain, of the new wine, and of the oil, to the rooms where the vessels of the sanctuary are, and the priests who minister, with the gatekeepers and the singers. We will not forsake the house of our God. 
NEH  11\v 1 The princes of the people lived in Jerusalem. The rest of the people also cast lots, to bring one of ten to dwell in Jerusalem the holy city, and nine parts in the other cities. 
NEH  11\v 1 The princes of the people lived in Jerusalem. The rest of the people also cast lots to bring one of ten to dwell in Jerusalem, the holy city, and nine parts in the other cities. 
NEH  11\v 3 Now these are the chiefs of the province who lived in Jerusalem; but in the cities of Judah everyone lived in his possession in their cities: Israel, the priests, the Levites, the temple servants, and the children of Solomon’s servants. 
NEH  11\v 3 Now these are the chiefs of the province who lived in Jerusalem; but in the cities of Judah, everyone lived in his possession in their cities—Israel, the priests, the Levites, the temple servants, and the children of Solomon’s servants. 
NEH  11\v 21 But the temple servants lived in Ophel: and Ziha and Gishpa were over the temple servants. 
NEH  11\v 21 But the temple servants lived in Ophel; and Ziha and Gishpa were over the temple servants. 
NEH  11\v 25 As for the villages, with their fields, some of the children of Judah lived in Kiriath Arba and its towns, in Dibon and its towns, in Jekabzeel and its villages, 
NEH  11\v 25 As for the villages with their fields, some of the children of Judah lived in Kiriath Arba and its towns, in Dibon and its towns, in Jekabzeel and its villages, 
NEH  12\v 19 and of Joiarib, Mattenai; of Jedaiah, Uzzi; 
NEH  12\v 19 of Joiarib, Mattenai; of Jedaiah, Uzzi; 
NEH  12\v 25 Mattaniah, and Bakbukiah, Obadiah, Meshullam, Talmon, Akkub, were gatekeepers keeping the watch at the storehouses of the gates. 
NEH  12\v 25 Mattaniah, Bakbukiah, Obadiah, Meshullam, Talmon, and Akkub were gatekeepers keeping the watch at the storehouses of the gates. 
NEH  12\v 27 At the dedication of the wall of Jerusalem, they sought the Levites out of all their places, to bring them to Jerusalem, to keep the dedication with gladness, both with giving thanks, and with singing, with cymbals, stringed instruments, and with harps. 
NEH  12\v 27 At the dedication of the wall of Jerusalem, they sought the Levites out of all their places, to bring them to Jerusalem to keep the dedication with gladness, both with giving thanks and with singing, with cymbals, stringed instruments, and with harps. 
NEH  12\v 29 also from Beth Gilgal, and out of the fields of Geba and Azmaveth: for the singers had built themselves villages around Jerusalem. 
NEH  12\v 29 also from Beth Gilgal and out of the fields of Geba and Azmaveth, for the singers had built themselves villages around Jerusalem. 
NEH  12\v 31 Then I brought up the princes of Judah on the wall, and appointed two great companies who gave thanks and went in procession. One went on the right hand on the wall toward the dung gate; 
NEH  12\v 31 Then I brought the princes of Judah up on the wall, and appointed two great companies who gave thanks and went in procession. One went on the right hand on the wall toward the dung gate; 
NEH  12\v 39 and above the gate of Ephraim, and by the old gate, and by the fish gate, and the tower of Hananel, and the tower of Hammeah, even to the sheep gate: and they stood still in the gate of the guard. 
NEH  12\v 39 and above the gate of Ephraim, and by the old gate, and by the fish gate, the tower of Hananel, and the tower of Hammeah, even to the sheep gate; and they stood still in the gate of the guard. 
NEH  12\v 43 They offered great sacrifices that day, and rejoiced; for God had made them rejoice with great joy; and the women and the children also rejoiced; so that the joy of Jerusalem was heard even far away. 
NEH  12\v 43 They offered great sacrifices that day, and rejoiced, for God had made them rejoice with great joy; and the women and the children also rejoiced, so that the joy of Jerusalem was heard even far away. 
NEH  12\v 45 They performed the duty of their God, and the duty of the purification, and so did the singers and the gatekeepers, according to the commandment of David, and of Solomon his son. 
NEH  12\v 45 They performed the duty of their God and the duty of the purification, and so did the singers and the gatekeepers, according to the commandment of David and of Solomon his son. 
NEH  13\v 47 All Israel in the days of Zerubbabel, and in the days of Nehemiah, gave the portions of the singers and the gatekeepers, as every day required; and they set apart that which was for the Levites; and the Levites set apart that which was for the sons of Aaron. 
NEH  13\v 47 All Israel in the days of Zerubbabel and in the days of Nehemiah gave the portions of the singers and the gatekeepers, as every day required; and they set apart that which was for the Levites; and the Levites set apart that which was for the sons of Aaron. 
NEH  13\v 15 In those days I saw some men treading wine presses on the Sabbath in Judah, bringing in sheaves, and loading donkeys; also with wine, grapes, figs, and all kinds of burdens, which they brought into Jerusalem on the Sabbath day; and I testified against them in the day in which they sold food. 
NEH  13\v 15 In those days I saw some men treading wine presses on the Sabbath in Judah, bringing in sheaves, and loading donkeys with wine, grapes, figs, and all kinds of burdens which they brought into Jerusalem on the Sabbath day; and I testified against them in the day in which they sold food. 
NEH  13\v 25 I contended with them, and cursed them, and struck certain of them, and plucked off their hair, and made them swear by God, “You shall not give your daughters to their sons, nor take their daughters for your sons, or for yourselves. 
NEH  13\v 25 I contended with them, cursed them, struck certain of them, plucked off their hair, and made them swear by God, “You shall not give your daughters to their sons, nor take their daughters for your sons, or for yourselves. 
NEH  13\v 29 Remember them, my God, because they have defiled the priesthood, and the covenant of the priesthood and of the Levites. 
NEH  13\v 29 Remember them, my God, because they have defiled the priesthood and the covenant of the priesthood and of the Levites. 
NEH  13\v 31 and for the wood offering, at times appointed, and for the first fruits. Remember me, my God, for good. NEH  13\v 31 and for the wood offering, at appointed times, and for the first fruits. Remember me, my God, for good. EST   1\v 3 in the third year of his reign, he made a feast for all his princes and his servants; the power of Persia and Media, the nobles and princes of the provinces, being before him. 
EST   1\v 3 in the third year of his reign, he made a feast for all his princes and his servants; the army of Persia and Media, the nobles and princes of the provinces being before him. 
EST   1\v 11 to bring Vashti the queen before the king with the royal crown, to show the people and the princes her beauty; for she was beautiful. 
EST   1\v 11 to bring Vashti the queen before the king wearing the royal crown, to show the people and the princes her beauty; for she was beautiful. 
EST   1\v 17 For this deed of the queen will become known to all women, causing them to show contempt for their husbands, when it is reported, ‘King Ahasuerus commanded Vashti the queen to be brought in before him, but she didn’t come.’ 
EST   1\v 17 For this deed of the queen will become known to all women, causing them to show contempt for their husbands when it is reported, ‘King Ahasuerus commanded Vashti the queen to be brought in before him, but she didn’t come.’ 
EST   2\v 5 There was a certain Jew in the citadel of Susa, whose name was Mordecai, the son of Jair, the son of Shimei, the son of Kish, a Benjamite, 
EST   2\v 5 There was a certain Jew in the citadel of Susa whose name was Mordecai, the son of Jair, the son of Shimei, the son of Kish, a Benjamite, 
EST   3\v 3 Then the king’s servants, who were in the king’s gate, said to Mordecai, “Why do you disobey the king’s commandment?” 
EST   3\v 3 Then the king’s servants who were in the king’s gate said to Mordecai, “Why do you disobey the king’s commandment?” 
EST   3\v 5 When Haman saw that Mordecai didn’t bow down, nor pay him homage, Haman was full of wrath. 
EST   3\v 5 When Haman saw that Mordecai didn’t bow down nor pay him homage, Haman was full of wrath. 
EST   4\v 1 Now when Mordecai found out all that was done, Mordecai tore his clothes, and put on sackcloth with ashes, and went out into the middle of the city, and wailed loudly and bitterly. 
EST   4\v 1 Now when Mordecai found out all that was done, Mordecai tore his clothes and put on sackcloth with ashes, and went out into the middle of the city, and wailed loudly and bitterly. 
EST   5\v 1 Now on the third day, Esther put on her royal clothing, and stood in the inner court of the king’s house, next to the king’s house. The king sat on his royal throne in the royal house, next to the entrance of the house. 
EST   5\v 1 Now on the third day, Esther put on her royal clothing and stood in the inner court of the king’s house, next to the king’s house. The king sat on his royal throne in the royal house, next to the entrance of the house. 
EST   7\v 7 The king arose in his wrath from the banquet of wine and went into the palace garden. Haman stood up to make request for his life to Esther the queen; for he saw that there was evil determined against him by the king. 
EST   7\v 7 The king arose in his wrath from the banquet of wine and went into the palace garden. Haman stood up to make request for his life to Esther the queen, for he saw that there was evil determined against him by the king. 
EST   7\v 9 Then Harbonah, one of the eunuchs who were with the king said, “Behold, the gallows fifty cubits\f + \fr 7:9  \ft A cubit is the length from the tip of the middle finger to the elbow on a man’s arm, or about 18 inches or 46 centimeters.\f* high, which Haman has made for Mordecai, who spoke good for the king, is standing at Haman’s house.” 
EST   7\v 9 Then Harbonah, one of the eunuchs who were with the king, said, “Behold, the gallows fifty cubits\f + \fr 7:9  \ft A cubit is the length from the tip of the middle finger to the elbow on a man’s arm, or about 18 inches or 46 centimeters.\f* high, which Haman has made for Mordecai, who spoke good for the king, is standing at Haman’s house.” 
EST   8\v 3 Esther spoke yet again before the king, and fell down at his feet, and begged him with tears to put away the mischief of Haman the Agagite, and his plan that he had planned against the Jews. 
EST   8\v 3 Esther spoke yet again before the king, and fell down at his feet and begged him with tears to put away the mischief of Haman the Agagite, and his plan that he had planned against the Jews. 
EST   8\v 7 Then King Ahasuerus said to Esther the queen and to Mordecai the Jew, “See, I have given Esther the house of Haman, and they have hanged him on the gallows, because he laid his hand on the Jews. 
EST   8\v 7 Then King Ahasuerus said to Esther the queen and to Mordecai the Jew, “See, I have given Esther the house of Haman, and they have hanged him on the gallows because he laid his hand on the Jews. 
EST   8\v 11 In those letters, the king granted the Jews who were in every city to gather themselves together, and to defend their life, to destroy, to kill, and to cause to perish, all the power of the people and province that would assault them, their little ones and women, and to plunder their possessions, 
EST   8\v 11 In those letters, the king granted the Jews who were in every city to gather themselves together and to defend their lives—to destroy, to kill, and to cause to perish all the power of the people and province that would assault them, their little ones and women, and to plunder their possessions, 
EST   9\v 17 In every province, and in every city, wherever the king’s commandment and his decree came, the Jews had gladness, joy, a feast, and a good day. Many from among the peoples of the land became Jews; for the fear of the Jews had fallen on them. 
EST   9\v 17 In every province and in every city, wherever the king’s commandment and his decree came, the Jews had gladness, joy, a feast and a holiday. Many from among the peoples of the land became Jews, for the fear of the Jews had fallen on them. 
EST   9\v 1 Now in the twelfth month, which is the month Adar, on the thirteenth day of the month, when the king’s commandment and his decree came near to be put in execution, on the day that the enemies of the Jews hoped to conquer them, (but it was turned out the opposite happened, that the Jews conquered those who hated them), 
EST   9\v 1 Now in the twelfth month, which is the month Adar, on the thirteenth day of the month, when the king’s commandment and his decree came near to be put in execution, on the day that the enemies of the Jews hoped to conquer them, (but it turned out that the opposite happened, that the Jews conquered those who hated them), 
EST   9\v 19 Therefore the Jews of the villages, who live in the unwalled towns, make the fourteenth day of the month Adar a day of gladness and feasting, a good day, and a day of sending presents of food to one another. 
EST   9\v 19 Therefore the Jews of the villages, who live in the unwalled towns, make the fourteenth day of the month Adar a day of gladness and feasting, a holiday, and a day of sending presents of food to one another. 
EST   9\v 23 The Jews accepted the custom that they had begun, as Mordecai had written to them; 
EST   9\v 23 The Jews accepted the custom that they had begun, as Mordecai had written to them, 
EST   9\v 27 the Jews established and imposed on themselves, and on their descendants, and on all those who joined themselves to them, so that it should not fail that they would keep these two days according to what was written, and according to its appointed time, every year; 
EST   9\v 27 the Jews established and imposed on themselves, on their descendants, and on all those who joined themselves to them, so that it should not fail that they would keep these two days according to what was written and according to its appointed time every year; 
EST   9\v 29 Then Esther the queen, the daughter of Abihail, and Mordecai the Jew, wrote with all authority to confirm this second letter of Purim. 
EST   9\v 29 Then Esther the queen, the daughter of Abihail, and Mordecai the Jew wrote with all authority to confirm this second letter of Purim. 
EST   9\v 31 to confirm these days of Purim in their appointed times, as Mordecai the Jew and Esther the queen had decreed, and as they had imposed upon themselves and their descendants, in the matter of the fastings and their cry. 
EST   9\v 31 to confirm these days of Purim in their appointed times, as Mordecai the Jew and Esther the queen had decreed, and as they had imposed upon themselves and their descendants in the matter of the fastings and their mourning. 
EST  10\v 1 King Ahasuerus laid a tribute on the land, and on the islands of the sea. 
EST  10\v 1 King Ahasuerus laid a tribute on the land and on the islands of the sea. 
EST  10\v 3 For Mordecai the Jew was next to King Ahasuerus, and great among the Jews, and accepted by the multitude of his brothers, seeking the good of his people, and speaking peace to all his descendants. EST  10\v 3 For Mordecai the Jew was next to King Ahasuerus, and great among the Jews and accepted by the multitude of his brothers, seeking the good of his people and speaking peace to all his descendants. JOB   5\v 5 whose harvest the hungry eats up, 
JOB   5\v 5 whose harvest the hungry eat up, 
JOB   5\v 27 Look at this. We have searched it. It is so. 
JOB   5\v 27 Behold, we have researched it. It is so. 
JOB   6\v 16 Which are black by reason of the ice, 
JOB   6\v 16 which are black by reason of the ice, 
JOB   6\v 22 Did I say, ‘Give to me?’ 
JOB   6\v 22 Did I ever say, ‘Give to me?’ 
JOB   8\v 19 Behold, this is the joy of his way: 
JOB   8\v 19 Behold, this is the joy of his way. 
JOB  11\v 15 Surely then you will lift up your face without spot; 
JOB  11\v 15 Surely then you will lift up your face without spot. 
JOB  11\v 7 “But ask the animals, now, and they will teach you; 
JOB  11\v 7 “But ask the animals now, and they will teach you; 
JOB  13\v 11 Shall not his majesty make you afraid, 
JOB  13\v 11 Won’t his majesty make you afraid 
JOB  15\v 31 Let him not trust in emptiness, deceiving himself; 
JOB  15\v 31 Let him not trust in emptiness, deceiving himself, 
JOB  17\v 14 if I have said to corruption, ‘You are my father;’ 
JOB  17\v 14 if I have said to corruption, ‘You are my father,’ 
JOB  19\v 21 “Have pity on me. Have pity on me, you my friends; 
JOB  19\v 21 “Have pity on me. Have pity on me, you my friends, 
JOB  21\v 3 Allow me, and I also will speak; 
JOB  21\v 3 Allow me, and I also will speak. 
JOB  22\v 21 “Acquaint yourself with him, now, and be at peace. 
JOB  22\v 21 “Acquaint yourself with him now, and be at peace. 
JOB  23\v 8 “If I go east, he is not there; 
JOB  23\v 8 “If I go east, he is not there. 
JOB  26\q2 the son of man, who is a worm!” 
JOB  26\q2 and the son of man, who is a worm!” 
JOB  26\v 8 For what is the hope of the godless, when he is cut off, when God takes away his life? 
JOB  26\v 8 For what is the hope of the godless, when he is cut off, 
JOB  29\v 11 For when the ear heard me, then it blessed me; 
JOB  29\v 11 For when the ear heard me, then it blessed me, 
JOB  31\v 1 “I made a covenant with my eyes, 
JOB  31\v 1 “I made a covenant with my eyes; 
JOB  33\v 16 Then he opens the ears of men, 
JOB  33\v 16 then he opens the ears of men, 
JOB  34\v 18 Who says to a king, ‘Vile!’ 
JOB  34\v 18 who says to a king, ‘Vile!’ 
JOB  37\v 13 Whether it is for correction, or for his land, 
JOB  37\v 13 whether it is for correction, or for his land, 
JOB  39\v 13 “The wings of the ostrich wave proudly; 
JOB  39\v 13 “The wings of the ostrich wave proudly, 
JOB  39\v 28 On the cliff he dwells, and makes his home, 
JOB  39\v 28 On the cliff he dwells and makes his home, 
JOB  40\v 6 Then Yahweh answered Job out of the whirlwind, 
JOB  40\v 6 Then Yahweh answered Job out of the whirlwind: 
JOB  40\v 15 “See now, behemoth, which I made as well as you. 
JOB  40\v 15 “See now behemoth, which I made as well as you. 
JOB  42\v 1 Then Job answered Yahweh, 
JOB  42\v 1 Then Job answered Yahweh: 
JOB  42\v 9 So Eliphaz the Temanite and Bildad the Shuhite and Zophar the Naamathite went, and did what Yahweh commanded them, and Yahweh accepted Job. 
JOB  42\v 9 So Eliphaz the Temanite and Bildad the Shuhite and Zophar the Naamathite went and did what Yahweh commanded them, and Yahweh accepted Job. 
PSA   4\v 3 But know that Yahweh has set apart for himself him who is godly: 
PSA   4\v 3 But know that Yahweh has set apart for himself him who is godly; 
PSA   5\q2 for you, Yahweh alone, make me live in safety. 
PSA   5\q2 for you alone, Yahweh, make me live in safety. 
PSA  18\v 3 There is no speech nor language, 
PSA  18\v 3 There is no speech nor language 
PSA  23\v 1 Yahweh is my shepherd: 
PSA  23\v 1 Yahweh is my shepherd; 
PSA  45\v 3 Strap your sword on your thigh, mighty one: 
PSA  45\v 3 Strap your sword on your thigh, O mighty one, 
PSA  71\v 15 They shall live, and to him shall be given of the gold of Sheba. 
PSA  71\v 15 He will live; and Sheba’s gold will be given to him. 
PSA  73\v 15 If I had said, “I will speak thus”; 
PSA  73\v 15 If I had said, “I will speak thus”, 
PSA  78\v 3 Which we have heard and known, 
PSA  78\v 3 which we have heard and known, 
PSA  92\v 9 For, behold, your enemies, Yahweh, 
PSA  92\v 9 For behold, your enemies, Yahweh, 
PSA 105\v 35 ate up every plant in their land, 
PSA 105\v 35 They ate up every plant in their land, 
PSA 109\v 13 Through God, we will do valiantly. 
PSA 109\v 13 Through God, we will do valiantly, 
PSA 111\v 7 He raises up the poor out of the dust. 
PSA 111\v 7 He raises up the poor out of the dust, 
PSA 122\v 3 Jerusalem, that is built as a city that is compact together, 
PSA 122\v 3 Jerusalem is built as a city that is compact together, 
PSA 124\v 5 then the proud waters would have gone over our soul. 
PSA 124\v 5 Then the proud waters would have gone over our soul. 
PSA 125\v 3 For the scepter of wickedness won’t remain over the allotment of the righteous; 
PSA 125\v 3 For the scepter of wickedness won’t remain over the allotment of the righteous, 
PSA 136\v 1 Give thanks to Yahweh, for he is good; 
PSA 136\v 1 Give thanks to Yahweh, for he is good, 
PSA 136\v 3 Give thanks to the Lord of lords; 
PSA 136\v 3 Give thanks to the Lord of lords, 
PSA 136\v 5 to him who by understanding made the heavens; 
PSA 136\v 5 to him who by understanding made the heavens, 
PSA 136\v 7 to him who made the great lights; 
PSA 136\v 7 to him who made the great lights, 
PSA 136\v 9 the moon and stars to rule by night; 
PSA 136\v 9 the moon and stars to rule by night, 
PSA 136\v 11 and brought out Israel from among them; 
PSA 136\v 11 and brought out Israel from among them, 
PSA 136\v 13 to him who divided the Red Sea apart; 
PSA 136\v 13 to him who divided the Red Sea apart, 
PSA 136\v 15 but overthrew Pharaoh and his army in the Red Sea; 
PSA 136\v 15 but overthrew Pharaoh and his army in the Red Sea, 
PSA 136\v 17 to him who struck great kings; 
PSA 136\v 17 to him who struck great kings, 
PSA 136\v 19 Sihon king of the Amorites; 
PSA 136\v 19 Sihon king of the Amorites, 
PSA 136\v 21 and gave their land as an inheritance; 
PSA 136\v 21 and gave their land as an inheritance, 
PSA 136\v 23 who remembered us in our low estate; 
PSA 136\v 23 who remembered us in our low estate, 
PSA 136\v 25 who gives food to every creature; 
PSA 136\v 25 who gives food to every creature, 
PSA 140\v 1 Deliver me, Yahweh, from the evil man. 
PSA 140\v 1 Deliver me, Yahweh, from evil men. 
PSA 148\v 9 mountains and all hills; 
PSA 148\v 9 mountains and all hills, 
PSA 148\v 11 kings of the earth and all peoples; 
PSA 148\v 11 kings of the earth and all peoples, 
PSA 148\v 13 let them praise Yahweh’s name, 
PSA 148\v 13 Let them praise Yahweh’s name, 
PRO   1\v 7 The fear of Yahweh\f + \fr 1:7  \ft “Yahweh” is God’s proper Name, sometimes rendered “LORD” (all caps) in other translations.\f* is the beginning of knowledge; 
PRO   1\v 7 The fear of Yahweh\f + \fr 1:7  \ft “Yahweh” is God’s proper Name, sometimes rendered “LORD” (all caps) in other translations.\f* is the beginning of knowledge, 
PRO   1\v 15 My son, don’t walk on the path with them. 
PRO   1\v 15 my son, don’t walk on the path with them. 
PRO   3\v 1 My son, don’t forget my teaching; 
PRO   3\v 1 My son, don’t forget my teaching, 
PRO  16\v 5 Everyone who is proud in heart is an abomination to Yahweh: 
PRO  16\v 5 Everyone who is proud in heart is an abomination to Yahweh; 
PRO  18\v 17 He who pleads his cause first seems right; 
PRO  18\v 17 He who pleads his cause first seems right— 
PRO  19\v 7 All the relatives of the poor shun him: 
PRO  19\v 7 All the relatives of the poor shun him; 
PRO  20\v 21 An inheritance quickly gained at the beginning, 
PRO  20\v 21 An inheritance quickly gained at the beginning 
PRO  22\v 5 Thorns and snares are in the path of the wicked: 
PRO  22\v 5 Thorns and snares are in the path of the wicked; 
PRO  22\v 9 He who has a generous eye will be blessed; 
PRO  22\v 9 He who has a generous eye will be blessed, 
PRO  22\v 15 Folly is bound up in the heart of a child: 
PRO  22\v 15 Folly is bound up in the heart of a child; 
PRO  22\v 22 Don’t exploit the poor, because he is poor; 
PRO  22\v 22 Don’t exploit the poor because he is poor; 
PRO  22\v 24 Don’t befriend a hot-tempered man, 
PRO  22\v 24 Don’t befriend a hot-tempered man. 
PRO  24\v 5 A wise man has great power; 
PRO  24\v 5 A wise man has great power. 
PRO  24\v 23 These also are sayings of the wise. 
PRO  24\v 23 These also are sayings of the wise: 
PRO  28\v 17 A man who is tormented by life blood will be a fugitive until death; 
PRO  28\v 17 A man who is tormented by blood guilt will be a fugitive until death. 
PRO  28\v 21 To show partiality is not good; 
PRO  28\v 21 To show partiality is not good, 
PRO  30\v 1 The words of Agur the son of Jakeh; the revelation: 
PRO  30\v 1 The words of Agur the son of Jakeh, the revelation: 
PRO  30\v 1 The words of king Lemuel; the revelation which his mother taught him. 
PRO  30\v 1 The words of king Lemuel—the revelation which his mother taught him: 
ECC   1\v 9 That which has been is that which shall be; and that which has been done is that which shall be done: and there is no new thing under the sun. 
ECC   1\v 9 That which has been is that which shall be, and that which has been done is that which shall be done; and there is no new thing under the sun. 
ECC   2\v 1 I said in my heart, “Come now, I will test you with mirth: therefore enjoy pleasure;” and behold, this also was vanity. 
ECC   2\v 1 I said in my heart, “Come now, I will test you with mirth; therefore enjoy pleasure;” and behold, this also was vanity. 
ECC   3\v 19 For that which happens to the sons of men happens to animals. Even one thing happens to them. As the one dies, so the other dies. Yes, they have all one breath; and man has no advantage over the animals; for all is vanity. 
ECC   3\v 19 For that which happens to the sons of men happens to animals. Even one thing happens to them. As the one dies, so the other dies. Yes, they have all one breath; and man has no advantage over the animals, for all is vanity. 
ECC   6\v 3 If a man fathers a hundred children, and lives many years, so that the days of his years are many, but his soul is not filled with good, and moreover he has no burial; I say that a stillborn child is better than he: 
ECC   6\v 3 If a man fathers a hundred children, and lives many years, so that the days of his years are many, but his soul is not filled with good, and moreover he has no burial, I say that a stillborn child is better than he; 
ECC   7\v 13 Consider the work of God, for who can make that straight, which he has made crooked? 
ECC   7\v 13 Consider the work of God, for who can make that straight which he has made crooked? 
ECC   7\v 27 “Behold, I have found this,” says the Preacher, “to one another, to find out the scheme 
ECC   7\v 27 “Behold, I have found this,” says the Preacher, “to one another, to find an explanation 
ECC   8\v 29 Behold, I have only found this: that God made man upright; but they search for many schemes.” 
ECC   8\v 29 Behold, I have only found this: that God made mankind upright; but they search for many inventions.” 
ECC   9\v 3 This is an evil in all that is done under the sun, that there is one event to all: yes also, the heart of the sons of men is full of evil, and madness is in their heart while they live, and after that they go to the dead. 
ECC   9\v 3 This is an evil in all that is done under the sun, that there is one event to all. Yes also, the heart of the sons of men is full of evil, and madness is in their heart while they live, and after that they go to the dead. 
ISA   6\v 5 Then I said, “Woe is me! For I am undone, because I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell among a people of unclean lips: for my eyes have seen the King, Yahweh of Armies!” 
ISA   6\v 5 Then I said, “Woe is me! For I am undone, because I am a man of unclean lips and I live among a people of unclean lips, for my eyes have seen the King, Yahweh of Armies!” 
ISA   7\v 1 In the days of Ahaz the son of Jotham, the son of Uzziah, king of Judah, Rezin the king of Syria, and Pekah the son of Remaliah, king of Israel, went up to Jerusalem to war against it, but could not prevail against it. 
ISA   7\v 1 In the days of Ahaz the son of Jotham, the son of Uzziah, king of Judah, Rezin the king of Syria and Pekah the son of Remaliah, king of Israel, went up to Jerusalem to war against it, but could not prevail against it. 
ISA   7\v 17 Yahweh will bring on you, on your people, and on your father’s house, days that have not come, from the day that Ephraim departed from Judah, even the king of Assyria. 
ISA   7\v 17 Yahweh will bring on you, on your people, and on your father’s house days that have not come, from the day that Ephraim departed from Judah, even the king of Assyria. 
ISA   7\v 23 It will happen in that day that every place where there were a thousand vines at a thousand silver shekels,\f + \fr 7:23  \ft A shekel is about 10 grams or about 0.35 ounces, so 1000 shekels is about 10 kilograms or 22 pounds.\f* shall be for briers and thorns. 
ISA   7\v 23 It will happen in that day that every place where there were a thousand vines worth a thousand silver shekels,\f + \fr 7:23  \ft A shekel is about 10 grams or about 0.35 ounces, so 1000 shekels is about 10 kilograms or 22 pounds.\f* will be for briers and thorns. 
ISA   8\v 21 They will pass through it, very distressed and hungry. It will happen that when they are hungry, they will worry, and curse by their king and by their God. They will turn their faces upward, 
ISA   8\v 21 They will pass through it, very distressed and hungry. It will happen that when they are hungry, they will worry, and curse their king and their God. They will turn their faces upward, 
ISA   9\v 1 Woe to those who decree unrighteous decrees, and to the writers who write oppressive decrees; 
ISA   9\v 1 Woe to those who decree unrighteous decrees, and to the writers who write oppressive decrees 
ISA   9\v 7 However he doesn’t mean so, neither does his heart think so; but it is in his heart to destroy, and to cut off not a few nations. 
ISA   9\v 7 However, he doesn’t mean so, neither does his heart think so; but it is in his heart to destroy, and to cut off not a few nations. 
ISA   9\v 13 For he has said, “By the strength of my hand I have done it, and by my wisdom; for I have understanding. I have removed the boundaries of the peoples, and have robbed their treasures. Like a valiant man I have brought down their rulers. 
ISA   9\v 13 For he has said, “By the strength of my hand I have done it, and by my wisdom, for I have understanding. I have removed the boundaries of the peoples, and have robbed their treasures. Like a valiant man I have brought down their rulers. 
ISA  11\v 5 Righteousness will be the belt of his waist, 
ISA  11\v 5 Righteousness will be the belt around his waist, 
ISA  14\v 19 But you are cast away from your tomb like an abominable branch, clothed with the slain, who are thrust through with the sword, who go down to the stones of the pit; like a dead body trodden under foot. 
ISA  14\v 19 But you are cast away from your tomb like an abominable branch, clothed with the slain who are thrust through with the sword, who go down to the stones of the pit; like a dead body trodden under foot. 
ISA  17\v 13 The nations will rush like the rushing of many waters: but he will rebuke them, and they will flee far off, and will be chased like the chaff of the mountains before the wind, and like the whirling dust before the storm. 
ISA  17\v 13 The nations will rush like the rushing of many waters, but he will rebuke them, and they will flee far off, and will be chased like the chaff of the mountains before the wind, and like the whirling dust before the storm. 
ISA  19\v 13 The princes of Zoan have become fools. The princes of Memphis are deceived. They have caused Egypt to go astray, who are the cornerstone of her tribes. 
ISA  19\v 13 The princes of Zoan have become fools. The princes of Memphis are deceived. They have caused Egypt to go astray, those who are the cornerstone of her tribes. 
ISA  22\v 5 For it is a day of confusion, and of treading down, and of perplexity, from the Lord, Yahweh of Armies, in the valley of vision, a breaking down of the walls, and a crying to the mountains.” 
ISA  22\v 5 For it is a day of confusion, and of treading down, and of perplexity from the Lord, Yahweh of Armies, in the valley of vision, a breaking down of the walls, and a crying to the mountains.” 
ISA  22\v 13 and behold, joy and gladness, killing cattle and killing sheep, eating meat and drinking wine: “Let’s eat and drink, for tomorrow we will die.” 
ISA  22\v 13 and behold, there is joy and gladness, killing cattle and killing sheep, eating meat and drinking wine: “Let’s eat and drink, for tomorrow we will die.” 
ISA  24\v 17 Fear, the pit, and the snare, are on you who inhabit the earth. 
ISA  24\v 17 Fear, the pit, and the snare are on you who inhabit the earth. 
ISA  25\v 23 Then the moon will be confounded, and the sun ashamed; for Yahweh of Armies will reign on Mount Zion, and in Jerusalem; and glory will be before his elders. 
ISA  25\v 23 Then the moon will be confounded, and the sun ashamed; for Yahweh of Armies will reign on Mount Zion and in Jerusalem; and glory will be before his elders. 
ISA  27\v 1 In that day, Yahweh with his hard and great and strong sword will punish leviathan, the fleeing serpent, and leviathan the twisted serpent; and he will kill the dragon that is in the sea. 
ISA  27\v 1 In that day, Yahweh with his hard and great and strong sword will punish leviathan, the fleeing serpent, and leviathan, the twisted serpent; and he will kill the dragon that is in the sea. 
ISA  28\v 27 For the dill are not threshed with a sharp instrument, neither is a cart wheel turned over the cumin; but the dill is beaten out with a stick, and the cumin with a rod. 
ISA  28\v 27 For the dill isn’t threshed with a sharp instrument, neither is a cart wheel turned over the cumin; but the dill is beaten out with a stick, and the cumin with a rod. 
ISA  30\v 1 “Woe to the rebellious children”, says Yahweh, “who take counsel, but not from me; and who make an alliance, but not with my Spirit, that they may add sin to sin, 
ISA  30\v 1 “Woe to the rebellious children”, says Yahweh, “who take counsel, but not from me; and who make an alliance, but not with my Spirit, that they may add sin to sin; 
ISA  35\v 3 Then Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah, the son of Asaph, the recorder came out to him. 
ISA  35\v 3 Then Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah, the son of Asaph the recorder came out to him. 
ISA  38\v 9 The writing of Hezekiah king of Judah, when he had been sick, and had recovered of his sickness. 
ISA  38\v 9 The writing of Hezekiah king of Judah, when he had been sick, and had recovered of his sickness: 
ISA  39\v 1 At that time, Merodach Baladan the son of Baladan, king of Babylon, sent letters and a present to Hezekiah; for he heard that he had been sick, and had recovered. 
ISA  39\v 1 At that time, Merodach-baladan the son of Baladan, king of Babylon, sent letters and a present to Hezekiah, for he heard that he had been sick, and had recovered. 
ISA  40\v 6 The voice of one saying, “Cry!” 
ISA  40\v 6 The voice of one saying, “Cry out!” 
ISA  43\v 5 One will say, ‘I am Yahweh’s;’ 
ISA  43\v 5 One will say, ‘I am Yahweh’s.’ 
ISA  43\v 18 They don’t know, neither do they consider: 
ISA  43\v 18 They don’t know, neither do they consider, 
ISA  43\v 21 Remember these things, Jacob and Israel; 
ISA  43\v 21 Remember these things, Jacob and Israel, 
ISA  45\v 28 Who says of Cyrus, ‘He is my shepherd, and shall perform all my pleasure,’ 
ISA  45\v 28 who says of Cyrus, ‘He is my shepherd, and shall perform all my pleasure,’ 
ISA  45\v 1 Yahweh says to his anointed, to Cyrus, whose right hand I have held, to subdue nations before him, and strip kings of their armor; to open the doors before him, and the gates shall not be shut: 
ISA  45\v 1 Yahweh says to his anointed, to Cyrus, whose right hand I have held to subdue nations before him and strip kings of their armor, to open the doors before him, and the gates shall not be shut: 
ISA  54\v 1 “Sing, barren, you who didn’t give birth; 
ISA  54\v 1 “Sing, barren, you who didn’t give birth! 
ISA  54\v 13 All your children will be taught by Yahweh; 
ISA  54\v 13 All your children will be taught by Yahweh, 
ISA  54\v 1 Yahweh says, 
ISA  54\v 1 Yahweh says: 
ISA  58\v 5 They hatch adders’ eggs, 
ISA  58\v 5 They hatch adders’ eggs 
ISA  60\v 19 The sun will be no more your light by day; 
ISA  60\v 19 The sun will be no more your light by day, 
ISA  65\v 15 You will leave your name for a curse to my chosen; 
ISA  65\v 15 You will leave your name for a curse to my chosen, 
ISA  65\v 1 Yahweh says, 
ISA  65\v 1 Yahweh says: 
ISA  65\v 17 “Those who sanctify themselves and purify themselves to go to the gardens, behind one in the middle, eating pig’s meat, abominable things, and the mouse, they shall come to an end together,” says Yahweh. 
ISA  65\v 17 “Those who sanctify themselves and purify themselves to go to the gardens, following one in the middle, eating pig’s meat, abominable things, and the mouse, they shall come to an end together,” says Yahweh. 
JER   1\v 9 Then Yahweh stretched out his hand, and touched my mouth. Then Yahweh said to me, “Behold, I have put my words in your mouth. 
JER   1\v 9 Then Yahweh stretched out his hand and touched my mouth. Then Yahweh said to me, “Behold, I have put my words in your mouth. 
JER   1\v 15 For, behold, I will call all the families of the kingdoms of the north,” says Yahweh. 
JER   1\v 15 For behold, I will call all the families of the kingdoms of the north,” says Yahweh. 
JER   2\v 15 The young lions have roared at him and yelled. 
JER   2\v 15 The young lions have roared at him and raised their voices. 
JER   3\v 13 Only acknowledge your iniquity, that you have transgressed against Yahweh your God, and have scattered your ways to the strangers under every green tree, and you have not obeyed my voice,’ says Yahweh.” 
JER   3\v 13 Only acknowledge your iniquity, that you have transgressed against Yahweh your God, and have scattered your ways to the strangers under every green tree, and you have not obeyed my voice,’” says Yahweh. 
JER   4\v 11 At that time it will be said to this people and to Jerusalem, “A hot wind from the bare heights in the wilderness toward the daughter of my people, not to winnow, nor to cleanse; 
JER   4\v 11 At that time it will be said to this people and to Jerusalem, “A hot wind blows from the bare heights in the wilderness toward the daughter of my people, not to winnow, nor to cleanse. 
JER   4\v 23 I saw the earth, and, behold, it was waste and void, and the heavens, and they had no light. 
JER   4\v 23 I saw the earth and, behold, it was waste and void, and the heavens, and they had no light. 
JER   4\v 29 Every city flees for the noise of the horsemen and archers. They go into the thickets, and climb up on the rocks. Every city is forsaken, and not a man dwells therein. 
JER   4\v 29 Every city flees for the noise of the horsemen and archers. They go into the thickets and climb up on the rocks. Every city is forsaken, and not a man dwells therein. 
JER   7\v 31 They have built the high places of Topheth, which is in the valley of the son of Hinnom, to burn their sons and their daughters in the fire; which I didn’t command, nor did it come into my mind. 
JER   7\v 31 They have built the high places of Topheth, which is in the valley of the son of Hinnom, to burn their sons and their daughters in the fire, which I didn’t command, nor did it come into my mind. 
JER  11\v 11 Therefore Yahweh says, ‘Behold, I will bring evil on them, which they will not be able to escape; and they will cry to me, but I will not listen to them. 
JER  11\v 11 Therefore Yahweh says, ‘Behold, I will bring evil on them which they will not be able to escape; and they will cry to me, but I will not listen to them. 
JER  11\v 21 “Therefore Yahweh says concerning the men of Anathoth, who seek your life, saying, ‘You shall not prophesy in Yahweh’s name, that you not die by our hand;’ 
JER  11\v 21 “Therefore Yahweh says concerning the men of Anathoth, who seek your life, saying, ‘You shall not prophesy in Yahweh’s name, that you not die by our hand’— 
JER  13\v 9 “Yahweh says, ‘In this way I, will ruin the pride of Judah, and the great pride of Jerusalem. 
JER  13\v 9 “Yahweh says, ‘In this way I will ruin the pride of Judah, and the great pride of Jerusalem. 
JER  13\v 21 What will you say, when he sets over you as head those whom you have yourself taught to be friends to you? 
JER  13\v 21 What will you say when he sets over you as head those whom you have yourself taught to be friends to you? 
JER  13\v 24 “Therefore I will scatter them, 
JER  13\v 24 “Therefore I will scatter them 
JER  13\v 1 This is Yahweh’s word that came to Jeremiah concerning the drought. 
JER  13\v 1 This is Yahweh’s word that came to Jeremiah concerning the drought: 
JER  16\v 19 Yahweh, my strength, and my stronghold, 
JER  16\v 19 Yahweh, my strength, my stronghold, 
JER  17\v 25 then there will enter in by the gates of this city kings and princes sitting on David’s throne, riding in chariots and on horses, they, and their princes, the men of Judah, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem; and this city will remain forever. 
JER  17\v 25 then there will enter in by the gates of this city kings and princes sitting on David’s throne, riding in chariots and on horses, they and their princes, the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem; and this city will remain forever. 
JER  18\v 7 At the instant I speak concerning a nation, and concerning a kingdom, to pluck up and to break down and to destroy it; 
JER  18\v 7 At the instant I speak concerning a nation, and concerning a kingdom, to pluck up and to break down and to destroy it, 
JER  18\v 9 At the instant I speak concerning a nation, and concerning a kingdom, to build and to plant it; 
JER  18\v 9 At the instant I speak concerning a nation, and concerning a kingdom, to build and to plant it, 
JER  19\v 1 Thus said Yahweh, “Go, and buy a potter’s earthen container, and take some of the elders of the people, and of the elders of the priests; 
JER  19\v 1 Thus said Yahweh, “Go, and buy a potter’s earthen container, and take some of the elders of the people and of the elders of the priests; 
JER  19\v 3 Say, ‘Hear Yahweh’s word, kings of Judah, and inhabitants of Jerusalem: Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel says, “Behold, I will bring evil on this place, which whoever hears, his ears will tingle. 
JER  19\v 3 Say, ‘Hear Yahweh’s word, kings of Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem: Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel says, “Behold, I will bring evil on this place, which whoever hears, his ears will tingle. 
JER  19\v 5 and have built the high places of Baal, to burn their children in the fire for burnt offerings to Baal, which I didn’t command, nor speak, which didn’t even enter into my mind. 
JER  19\v 5 and have built the high places of Baal to burn their children in the fire for burnt offerings to Baal, which I didn’t command, nor speak, which didn’t even enter into my mind. 
JER  19\v 9 I will cause them to eat the flesh of their sons and the flesh of their daughters. They will each eat the flesh of his friend in the siege and in the distress, with which their enemies, and those who seek their life, will distress them.”’ 
JER  19\v 9 I will cause them to eat the flesh of their sons and the flesh of their daughters. They will each eat the flesh of his friend in the siege and in the distress with which their enemies, and those who seek their life, will distress them.”’ 
JER  19\v 11 and shall tell them, ‘Yahweh of Armies says: “Even so I will break this people and this city, as one breaks a potter’s vessel, that can’t be made whole again. They will bury in Topheth, until there is no place to bury. 
JER  19\v 11 and shall tell them, ‘Yahweh of Armies says: “Even so I will break this people and this city as one breaks a potter’s vessel, that can’t be made whole again. They will bury in Topheth until there is no place to bury. 
JER  19\v 13 The houses of Jerusalem, and the houses of the kings of Judah, which are defiled, will be as the place of Topheth, even all the houses on whose roofs they have burned incense to all the army of the sky and have poured out drink offerings to other gods.”’” 
JER  19\v 13 The houses of Jerusalem and the houses of the kings of Judah, which are defiled, will be as the place of Topheth, even all the houses on whose roofs they have burned incense to all the army of the sky and have poured out drink offerings to other gods.”’” 
JER  20\v 9 If I say, I will not make mention of him, 
JER  20\v 9 If I say that I will not make mention of him, 
JER  21\v 9 He who remains in this city will die by the sword, by the famine, and by the pestilence; but he who goes out and passes over to the Chaldeans who besiege you, he will live, and he will escape with his life. 
JER  21\v 9 He who remains in this city will die by the sword, by the famine, and by the pestilence, but he who goes out and passes over to the Chaldeans who besiege you, he will live, and he will escape with his life. 
JER  21\v 1 Yahweh said, “Go down to the house of the king of Judah, and speak this word, there: 
JER  21\v 1 Yahweh said, “Go down to the house of the king of Judah, and speak this word there: 
JER  21\v 15 “Should you reign, because you strive to excel in cedar? 
JER  21\v 15 “Should you reign because you strive to excel in cedar? 
JER  21\v 20 “Go up to Lebanon, and cry. 
JER  21\v 20 “Go up to Lebanon, and cry out. 
JER  23\v 7 “Therefore behold, the days come,” says Yahweh, “that they will no more say, ‘As Yahweh lives, who brought up the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt;’ 
JER  23\v 7 “Therefore, behold, the days come,” says Yahweh, “that they will no more say, ‘As Yahweh lives, who brought up the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt;’ 
JER  23\v 39 therefore, behold, I will utterly forget you, and I will cast you off, and the city that I gave to you and to your fathers, away from my presence. 
JER  23\v 39 therefore behold, I will utterly forget you, and I will cast you off with the city that I gave to you and to your fathers, away from my presence. 
JER  24\v 5 “Yahweh, the God of Israel says: ‘Like these good figs, so I will regard the captives of Judah, whom I have sent out of this place into the land of the Chaldeans, for good. 
JER  24\v 5 “Yahweh, the God of Israel says: ‘Like these good figs, so I will regard the captives of Judah, whom I have sent out of this place into the land of the Chaldeans, as good. 
JER  25\v 7 “Yet you have not listened to me,” says Yahweh; “that you may provoke me to anger with the work of your hands to your own hurt.” 
JER  25\v 7 “Yet you have not listened to me,” says Yahweh, “that you may provoke me to anger with the work of your hands to your own hurt.” 
JER  25\v 3 It may be they will listen, and every man turn from his evil way; that I may relent from the evil which I intend to do to them because of the evil of their doings.’ 
JER  25\v 3 It may be they will listen, and every man turn from his evil way, that I may relent from the evil which I intend to do to them because of the evil of their doings.’ 
JER  25\v 5 to listen to the words of my servants the prophets, whom I send to you, even rising up early and sending them, but you have not listened; 
JER  25\v 5 to listen to the words of my servants the prophets whom I send to you, even rising up early and sending them—but you have not listened— 
JER  25\v 11 Then the priests and the prophets spoke to the princes and to all the people, saying, “This man is worthy of death; for he has prophesied against this city, as you have heard with your ears.” 
JER  25\v 11 Then the priests and the prophets spoke to the princes and to all the people, saying, “This man is worthy of death, for he has prophesied against this city, as you have heard with your ears.” 
JER  25\v 23 and they fetched Uriah out of Egypt, and brought him to Jehoiakim the king, who killed him with the sword, and cast his dead body into the graves of the common people. 
JER  25\v 23 They fetched Uriah out of Egypt and brought him to Jehoiakim the king, who killed him with the sword and cast his dead body into the graves of the common people. 
JER  28\v 3 Within two full years I will bring again into this place all the vessels of Yahweh’s house that Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon took away from this place, and carried to Babylon. 
JER  28\v 3 Within two full years I will bring again into this place all the vessels of Yahweh’s house that Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon took away from this place and carried to Babylon. 
JER  28\v 9 The prophet who prophesies of peace, when the word of the prophet happens, then the prophet will be known, that Yahweh has truly sent him.” 
JER  28\v 9 As for prophet who prophesies of peace, when the word of the prophet happens, then the prophet will be known, that Yahweh has truly sent him.” 
JER  29\v 3 by the hand of Elasah the son of Shaphan, and Gemariah the son of Hilkiah, (whom Zedekiah king of Judah sent to Babylon to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon). It said: 
JER  29\v 3 by the hand of Elasah the son of Shaphan and Gemariah the son of Hilkiah, (whom Zedekiah king of Judah sent to Babylon to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon). It said: 
JER  29\v 13 You shall seek me, and find me, when you search for me with all your heart. 
JER  29\v 13 You shall seek me and find me, when you search for me with all your heart. 
JER  29\v 15 Because you have said, “Yahweh has raised us up prophets in Babylon;” 
JER  29\v 15 Because you have said, “Yahweh has raised us up prophets in Babylon,” 
JER  29\v 31 “Send to all of the captives, saying, ‘Yahweh says concerning Shemaiah the Nehelamite: “Because Shemaiah has prophesied to you, and I didn’t send him, and he has caused you to trust in a lie;” 
JER  29\v 31 “Send to all of the captives, saying, ‘Yahweh says concerning Shemaiah the Nehelamite: “Because Shemaiah has prophesied to you, and I didn’t send him, and he has caused you to trust in a lie,” 
JER  30\v 32 not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day that I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt; 
JER  30\v 32 not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day that I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt, which covenant of mine they broke, although I was a husband to them,” says Yahweh. 
JER  32\v 5 and he will bring Zedekiah to Babylon, and he will be there until I visit him,” says Yahweh: “though you fight with the Chaldeans, you will not prosper?”’” 
JER  32\v 5 and he will bring Zedekiah to Babylon, and he will be there until I visit him,” says Yahweh, “though you fight with the Chaldeans, you will not prosper?”’” 
JER  32\v 39 I will give them one heart and one way, that they may fear me forever, for their good, and the good of their children after them. 
JER  32\v 39 I will give them one heart and one way, that they may fear me forever, for their good and the good of their children after them. 
JER  33\v 5 while men come to fight with the Chaldeans, and to fill them with the dead bodies of men, whom I have killed in my anger and in my wrath, and for all whose wickedness I have hidden my face from this city: 
JER  33\v 5 ‘While men come to fight with the Chaldeans, and to fill them with the dead bodies of men, whom I have killed in my anger and in my wrath, and for all whose wickedness I have hidden my face from this city, 
JER  33\v 7 I will cause the captivity of Judah and the captivity of Israel to return, and will build them, as at the first. 
JER  33\v 7 I will restore the fortunes of Judah and Israel, and will build them as at the first. 
JER  33\v 21 then my covenant could also be broken with David my servant, that he won’t have a son to reign on his throne; and with the Levites the priests, my ministers. 
JER  33\v 21 then my covenant could also be broken with David my servant, that he won’t have a son to reign on his throne; and with the Levitical priests, my ministers. 
JER  33\v 25 Yahweh says: “If my covenant of day and night fails, if I have not appointed the ordinances of heaven and earth; 
JER  33\v 25 Yahweh says: “If my covenant of day and night fails, if I have not appointed the ordinances of heaven and earth, 
JER  34\v 7 when the king of Babylon’s army was fighting against Jerusalem, and against all the cities of Judah that were left, against Lachish and against Azekah; for these alone remained of the cities of Judah as fortified cities. 
JER  34\v 7 when the king of Babylon’s army was fighting against Jerusalem and against all the cities of Judah that were left, against Lachish and against Azekah; for these alone remained of the cities of Judah as fortified cities. 
JER  34\v 9 that every man should let his male servant, and every man his female servant, who is a Hebrew or a Hebrewess, go free; that no one should make bondservants of them, of a Jew his brother. 
JER  34\v 9 that every man should let his male servant, and every man his female servant, who is a Hebrew or a Hebrewess, go free, that no one should make bondservants of them, of a Jew his brother. 
JER  34\v 11 but afterwards they turned, and caused the servants and the handmaids, whom they had let go free, to return, and brought them into subjection for servants and for handmaids. 
JER  34\v 11 but afterwards they turned, and caused the servants and the handmaids whom they had let go free to return, and brought them into subjection for servants and for handmaids. 
JER  34\v 19 the princes of Judah, the princes of Jerusalem, the eunuchs, the priests, and all the people of the land, who passed between the parts of the calf; 
JER  34\v 19 the princes of Judah, the princes of Jerusalem, the eunuchs, the priests, and all the people of the land, who passed between the parts of the calf. 
JER  35\v 15 I have sent also to you all my servants the prophets, rising up early and sending them, saying, ‘Every one of you must return now from his evil way, amend your doings, and don’t go after other gods to serve them, then you will dwell in the land which I have given to you and to your fathers:’ but you have not inclined your ear, nor listened to me. 
JER  35\v 15 I have sent also to you all my servants the prophets, rising up early and sending them, saying, ‘Every one of you must return now from his evil way, amend your doings, and don’t go after other gods to serve them. Then you will dwell in the land which I have given to you and to your fathers;’ but you have not inclined your ear, nor listened to me. 
JER  35\v 17 “Therefore Yahweh, the God of Armies, the God of Israel, says: ‘Behold, I will bring on Judah and on all the inhabitants of Jerusalem all the evil that I have pronounced against them; because I have spoken to them, but they have not heard; and I have called to them, but they have not answered.’” 
JER  35\v 17 “Therefore Yahweh, the God of Armies, the God of Israel, says: ‘Behold, I will bring on Judah and on all the inhabitants of Jerusalem all the evil that I have pronounced against them, because I have spoken to them, but they have not heard; and I have called to them, but they have not answered.’” 
JER  36\v 3 It may be that the house of Judah will hear all the evil which I intend to do to them; that they may each return from his evil way; that I may forgive their iniquity and their sin.” 
JER  36\v 3 It may be that the house of Judah will hear all the evil which I intend to do to them, that they may each return from his evil way; that I may forgive their iniquity and their sin.” 
JER  36\v 9 Now in the fifth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, in the ninth month, all the people in Jerusalem, and all the people who came from the cities of Judah to Jerusalem, proclaimed a fast before Yahweh. 
JER  36\v 9 Now in the fifth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, in the ninth month, all the people in Jerusalem and all the people who came from the cities of Judah to Jerusalem, proclaimed a fast before Yahweh. 
JER  36\v 21 So the king sent Jehudi to get the scroll; and he took it out of the room of Elishama the scribe. Jehudi read it in the hearing of the king, and in the hearing of all the princes who stood beside the king. 
JER  36\v 21 So the king sent Jehudi to get the scroll, and he took it out of the room of Elishama the scribe. Jehudi read it in the hearing of the king, and in the hearing of all the princes who stood beside the king. 
JER  36\v 23 When Jehudi had read three or four leaves, the king cut it with the penknife, and cast it into the fire that was in the brazier, until all the scroll was consumed in the fire that was in the brazier. 
JER  36\v 23 When Jehudi had read three or four columns, the king cut it with the penknife, and cast it into the fire that was in the brazier, until all the scroll was consumed in the fire that was in the brazier. 
JER  37\v 1 Zedekiah the son of Josiah reigned as king, instead of Coniah the son of Jehoiakim, whom Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon made king in the land of Judah. 
JER  37\v 1 Zedekiah the son of Josiah reigned as king instead of Coniah the son of Jehoiakim, whom Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon made king in the land of Judah. 
JER  37\v 3 Zedekiah the king sent Jehucal the son of Shelemiah, and Zephaniah the son of Maaseiah, the priest, to the prophet Jeremiah, saying, “Pray now to Yahweh our God for us.” 
JER  37\v 3 Zedekiah the king sent Jehucal the son of Shelemiah and Zephaniah the son of Maaseiah, the priest, to the prophet Jeremiah, saying, “Pray now to Yahweh our God for us.” 
JER  37\v 5 Pharaoh’s army had come out of Egypt; and when the Chaldeans who were besieging Jerusalem heard news of them, they broke up from Jerusalem. 
JER  37\v 5 Pharaoh’s army had come out of Egypt; and when the Chaldeans who were besieging Jerusalem heard news of them, they withdrew from Jerusalem. 
JER  37\v 11 When the army of the Chaldeans had broken up from Jerusalem for fear of Pharaoh’s army, 
JER  37\v 11 When the army of the Chaldeans had withdrawn from Jerusalem for fear of Pharaoh’s army, 
JER  37\v 17 then Zedekiah the king sent, and had him brought out. The king asked him secretly in his house, “Is there any word from Yahweh?” 
JER  37\v 17 then Zedekiah the king sent and had him brought out. The king asked him secretly in his house, “Is there any word from Yahweh?” 
JER  38\v 1 Shephatiah the son of Mattan, and Gedaliah the son of Pashhur, and Jucal the son of Shelemiah, and Pashhur the son of Malchijah, heard the words that Jeremiah spoke to all the people, saying, 
JER  38\v 1 Shephatiah the son of Mattan, Gedaliah the son of Pashhur, Jucal the son of Shelemiah, and Pashhur the son of Malchijah heard the words that Jeremiah spoke to all the people, saying, 
JER  38\v 27 Then all the princes came to Jeremiah, and asked him; and he told them according to all these words that the king had commanded. So they stopped speaking with him; for the matter was not perceived. 
JER  38\v 27 Then all the princes came to Jeremiah, and asked him; and he told them according to all these words that the king had commanded. So they stopped speaking with him, for the matter was not perceived. 
JER  39\v 3 All the princes of the king of Babylon came in, and sat in the middle gate, Nergal Sharezer, Samgarnebo, Sarsechim, Rabsaris, Nergal Sharezer, Rabmag, with all the rest of the princes of the king of Babylon. 
JER  39\v 3 All the princes of the king of Babylon came in, and sat in the middle gate: Nergal Sharezer, Samgarnebo, Sarsechim, Rabsaris, Nergal Sharezer, Rabmag, with all the rest of the princes of the king of Babylon. 
JER  39\v 9 Then Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard carried away captive into Babylon the residue of the people who remained in the city, the deserters also who fell away to him, and the residue of the people who remained. 
JER  39\v 9 Then Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard carried away captive into Babylon the rest of the people who remained in the city, the deserters also who fell away to him, and the rest of the people who remained. 
JER  39\v 13 So Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard sent, with Nebushazban, Rabsaris, and Nergal Sharezer, Rabmag, and all the chief officers of the king of Babylon; 
JER  39\v 13 So Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard, Nebushazban, Rabsaris, and Nergal Sharezer, Rabmag, and all the chief officers of the king of Babylon 
JER  39\v 15 Now Yahweh’s word came to Jeremiah, while he was shut up in the court of the guard, saying, 
JER  39\v 15 Now Yahweh’s word came to Jeremiah while he was shut up in the court of the guard, saying, 
JER  40\v 1 The word which came to Jeremiah from Yahweh, after Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard had let him go from Ramah, when he had taken him being bound in chains among all the captives of Jerusalem and Judah, who were carried away captive to Babylon. 
JER  40\v 1 The word which came to Jeremiah from Yahweh, after Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard had let him go from Ramah, when he had taken him being bound in chains among all the captives of Jerusalem and Judah who were carried away captive to Babylon. 
JER  40\v 7 Now when all the captains of the forces who were in the fields, even they and their men, heard that the king of Babylon had made Gedaliah the son of Ahikam governor in the land, and had committed to him men, women, children, and of the poorest of the land, of those who were not carried away captive to Babylon; 
JER  40\v 7 Now when all the captains of the forces who were in the fields, even they and their men, heard that the king of Babylon had made Gedaliah the son of Ahikam governor in the land, and had committed to him men, women, children, and of the poorest of the land, of those who were not carried away captive to Babylon, 
JER  40\v 11 Likewise when all the Jews who were in Moab, and among the children of Ammon, and in Edom, and who were in all the countries, heard that the king of Babylon had left a remnant of Judah, and that he had set over them Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan; 
JER  40\v 11 Likewise when all the Jews who were in Moab, and among the children of Ammon, and in Edom, and who were in all the countries, heard that the king of Babylon had left a remnant of Judah, and that he had set over them Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, 
JER  41\v 3 Ishmael also killed all the Jews who were with him, with Gedaliah, at Mizpah, and the Chaldeans who were found there, the men of war. 
JER  41\v 3 Ishmael also killed all the Jews who were with Gedaliah at Mizpah, and the Chaldeans men of war who were found there. 
JER  42\v 11 Don’t be afraid of the king of Babylon, of whom you are afraid. Don’t be afraid of him,’ says Yahweh: ‘for I am with you to save you, and to deliver you from his hand. 
JER  42\v 11 Don’t be afraid of the king of Babylon, of whom you are afraid. Don’t be afraid of him,’ says Yahweh, ‘for I am with you to save you, and to deliver you from his hand. 
JER  42\v 13 “‘But if you say, “We will not dwell in this land;” so that you don’t obey Yahweh your God’s voice, 
JER  42\v 13 “‘But if you say, “We will not dwell in this land,” so that you don’t obey Yahweh your God’s voice, 
JER  42\v 15 now therefore hear Yahweh’s word, O remnant of Judah: Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, says, ‘If you indeed set your faces to enter into Egypt, and go to live there; 
JER  42\v 15 now therefore hear Yahweh’s word, O remnant of Judah! Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, says, ‘If you indeed set your faces to enter into Egypt, and go to live there, 
JER  43\v 3 but Baruch the son of Neriah has turned you against us, to deliver us into the hand of the Chaldeans, that they may put us to death, and carry us away captive to Babylon.” 
JER  43\v 3 but Baruch the son of Neriah has turned you against us, to deliver us into the hand of the Chaldeans, that they may put us to death or carry us away captive to Babylon.” 
JER  43\v 5 But Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the forces, took all the remnant of Judah, who had returned from all the nations where they had been driven, to live in the land of Judah; 
JER  43\v 5 But Johanan the son of Kareah and all the captains of the forces took all the remnant of Judah, who had returned from all the nations where they had been driven, to live in the land of Judah— 
JER  43\v 7 and they came into the land of Egypt; for they didn’t obey Yahweh’s voice: and they came to Tahpanhes. 
JER  43\v 7 They came into the land of Egypt, for they didn’t obey Yahweh’s voice; and they came to Tahpanhes. 
JER  43\v 9 “Take great stones in your hand, and hide them in mortar in the brick work, which is at the entry of Pharaoh’s house in Tahpanhes, in the sight of the men of Judah; 
JER  43\v 9 “Take great stones in your hand and hide them in mortar in the brick work which is at the entry of Pharaoh’s house in Tahpanhes, in the sight of the men of Judah. 
JER  44\v 13 He will also break the pillars of Beth Shemesh, that is in the land of Egypt; and he will burn the houses of the gods of Egypt with fire.’” 
JER  44\v 13 He will also break the pillars of Beth Shemesh that is in the land of Egypt; and he will burn the houses of the gods of Egypt with fire.’” 
JER  44\v 7 “Therefore now Yahweh, the God of Armies, the God of Israel, says: ‘Why do you commit great evil against your own souls, to cut off from yourselves man and woman, infant and nursing child out of the middle of Judah, to leave yourselves no one remaining; 
JER  44\v 7 “Therefore now Yahweh, the God of Armies, the God of Israel, says: ‘Why do you commit great evil against your own souls, to cut off from yourselves man and woman, infant and nursing child out of the middle of Judah, to leave yourselves no one remaining, 
JER  44\v 9 Have you forgotten the wickedness of your fathers, and the wickedness of the kings of Judah, and the wickedness of their wives, and your own wickedness, and the wickedness of your wives, which they committed in the land of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem? 
JER  44\v 9 Have you forgotten the wickedness of your fathers, the wickedness of the kings of Judah, the wickedness of their wives, your own wickedness, and the wickedness of your wives which they committed in the land of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem? 
JER  44\v 17 But we will certainly perform every word that has gone out of our mouth, to burn incense to the queen of the sky, and to pour out drink offerings to her, as we have done, we and our fathers, our kings and our princes, in the cities of Judah, and in the streets of Jerusalem; for then had we plenty of food, and were well, and saw no evil. 
JER  44\v 17 But we will certainly perform every word that has gone out of our mouth, to burn incense to the queen of the sky and to pour out drink offerings to her, as we have done, we and our fathers, our kings and our princes, in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem; for then had we plenty of food, and were well, and saw no evil. 
JER  44\v 19 The women said, “When we burned incense to the queen of the sky, and poured out drink offerings to her, did we make her cakes to worship her, and pour out drink offerings to her, without our husbands?” 
JER  44\v 19 The women said, “When we burned incense to the queen of the sky and poured out drink offerings to her, did we make her cakes to worship her, and pour out drink offerings to her, without our husbands?” 
JER  44\v 23 Because you have burned incense, and because you have sinned against Yahweh, and have not obeyed Yahweh’s voice, nor walked in his law, nor in his statutes, nor in his testimonies; therefore this evil has happened to you, as it is today.” 
JER  44\v 23 Because you have burned incense and because you have sinned against Yahweh, and have not obeyed Yahweh’s voice, nor walked in his law, nor in his statutes, nor in his testimonies; therefore this evil has happened to you, as it is today.” 
JER  46\v 5 Do you seek great things for yourself? Don’t seek them; for, behold, I will bring evil on all flesh,’ says Yahweh; ‘but I will let you escape with your life wherever you go.’” 
JER  46\v 5 Do you seek great things for yourself? Don’t seek them; for, behold, I will bring evil on all flesh,’ says Yahweh, ‘but I will let you escape with your life wherever you go.’” 
JER  46\v 22 Its sound will go like the serpent; 
JER  46\v 22 Its sound will go like the serpent, 
JER  47\v 28 Don’t be afraid, O Jacob my servant,” says Yahweh; 
JER  47\v 28 Don’t be afraid, O Jacob my servant,” says Yahweh, 
JER  48\v 26 “Make him drunken; 
JER  48\v 26 “Make him drunk, 
JER  49\v 19 “Behold, he will come up like a lion from the pride of the Jordan against the strong habitation: 
JER  49\v 19 “Behold, he will come up like a lion from the pride of the Jordan against the strong habitation; 
JER  50\v 41 “Behold, a people comes from the north; 
JER  50\v 41 “Behold, a people comes from the north. 
JER  50\v 45 Therefore hear the counsel of Yahweh, 
JER  50\v 45 Therefore hear the counsel of Yahweh 
JER  51\q2 and the cry is heard among the nations. 
JER  51\q2 The cry is heard among the nations. 
JER  51\v 17 “Every man has become brutish without knowledge. 
JER  51\v 17 “Every man has become stupid and without knowledge. 
JER  51\v 51 “We are confounded, 
JER  51\v 51 “We are confounded 
JER  52\v 1 Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he began to reign. He reigned eleven years in Jerusalem: and his mother’s name was Hamutal the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah. 
JER  52\v 1 Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he began to reign. He reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Hamutal the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah. 
JER  52\v 15 Then Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard carried away captive of the poorest of the people, and the residue of the people who were left in the city, and those who fell away, who fell to the king of Babylon, and the residue of the multitude. 
JER  52\v 15 Then Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard carried away captive of the poorest of the people, and the rest of the people who were left in the city, and those who fell away, who defected to the king of Babylon, and the rest of the multitude. 
JER  52\v 17 The Chaldeans broke the pillars of bronze that were in Yahweh’s house, and the bases and the bronze sea that were in Yahweh’s house in pieces, and carried all of their bronze to Babylon. 
JER  52\v 17 The Chaldeans broke the pillars of bronze that were in Yahweh’s house and the bases and the bronze sea that were in Yahweh’s house in pieces, and carried all of their bronze to Babylon. 
JER  52\v 19 The captain of the guard took away the cups, the fire pans, the basins, the pots, the lamp stands, the spoons, and the bowls; that which was of gold, in gold, and that which was of silver, in silver. 
JER  52\v 19 The captain of the guard took away the cups, the fire pans, the basins, the pots, the lamp stands, the spoons, and the bowls; that which was of gold, as gold, and that which was of silver, as silver. 
JER  52\v 30 in the twenty-third year of Nebuchadnezzar Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard carried away captive of the Jews seven hundred forty-five people: 
JER  52\v 30 in the twenty-third year of Nebuchadnezzar, Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard carried away captive of the Jews seven hundred forty-five people. 
LAM   1\v 3 Judah has gone into captivity because of affliction, 
LAM   1\v 3 Judah has gone into captivity because of affliction 
LAM   1\v 18 “Yahweh is righteous; 
LAM   1\v 18 “Yahweh is righteous, 
LAM   3\v 39 Why does a living man complain, 
LAM   3\v 39 Why should a living man complain, 
EZE   2\v 5 They, whether they will hear, or whether they will refuse, for they are a rebellious house, yet they will know that there has been a prophet among them. 
EZE   2\v 5 They, whether they will hear, or whether they will refuse—for they are a rebellious house—yet they will know that there has been a prophet among them. 
EZE   2\v 7 You shall speak my words to them, whether they will hear, or whether they will refuse; for they are most rebellious. 
EZE   2\v 7 You shall speak my words to them, whether they will hear or whether they will refuse; for they are most rebellious. 
EZE   2\v 9 When I looked, behold, a hand was stretched out to me; and, behold, a scroll of a book was in it. 
EZE   2\v 9 When I looked, behold, a hand was stretched out to me; and behold, a scroll of a book was in it. 
EZE   3\v 3 He said to me, “Son of man, cause your belly to eat, and fill your bowels with this scroll that I give you.” 
EZE   3\v 3 He said to me, “Son of man, eat this scroll that I give you and fill your belly and your bowels with it.” 
EZE   3\v 5 For you are not sent to a people of a strange speech and of a hard language, but to the house of Israel; 
EZE   3\v 5 For you are not sent to a people of a strange speech and of a hard language, but to the house of Israel— 
EZE   3\v 15 eThen I came to them of the captivity at Tel Aviv who lived by the river Chebar, and to where they lived; and I sat there overwhelmed among them seven days. 
EZE   3\v 15 Then I came to them of the captivity at Tel Aviv who lived by the river Chebar, and to where they lived; and I sat there overwhelmed among them seven days. 
EZE   4\v 3 Take for yourself an iron pan, and set it for a wall of iron between you and the city. Then set your face toward it. It will be besieged, and you shall lay siege against it. This shall be a sign to the house of Israel. 
EZE   4\v 3 Take for yourself an iron pan and set it for a wall of iron between you and the city. Then set your face toward it. It will be besieged, and you shall lay siege against it. This shall be a sign to the house of Israel. 
EZE   5\v 3 You shall take of it a few in number, and bind them in the folds of your robe. 
EZE   5\v 3 You shall take a small number of these and bind them in the folds of your robe. 
EZE   6\v 11 “The Lord Yahweh says: ‘Strike with your hand, and stamp with your foot, and say, “Alas!” Because of all the evil abominations of the house of Israel; for they will fall by the sword, by the famine, and by the pestilence. 
EZE   6\v 11 “The Lord Yahweh says: ‘Strike with your hand, and stamp with your foot, and say, “Alas!”, because of all the evil abominations of the house of Israel; for they will fall by the sword, by the famine, and by the pestilence. 
EZE   6\v 13 You will know that I am Yahweh, when their slain men are among their idols around their altars, on every high hill, on all the tops of the mountains, under every green tree, and under every thick oak, the places where they offered pleasant aroma to all their idols. 
EZE   6\v 13 You will know that I am Yahweh when their slain men are among their idols around their altars, on every high hill, on all the tops of the mountains, under every green tree, and under every thick oak—the places where they offered pleasant aroma to all their idols. 
EZE   7\v 5 “The Lord Yahweh says: ‘An evil! A unique evil! Behold, it comes. 
EZE   7\v 5 “The Lord Yahweh says: ‘A disaster! A unique disaster! Behold, it comes. 
EZE   7\v 23 “‘Make chains; for the land is full of bloody crimes, and the city is full of violence. 
EZE   7\v 23 “‘Make chains, for the land is full of bloody crimes, and the city is full of violence. 
EZE  10\v 3 Now the cherubim stood on the right side of the house, when the man went in; and the cloud filled the inner court. 
EZE  10\v 3 Now the cherubim stood on the right side of the house when the man went in; and the cloud filled the inner court. 
EZE  10\v 19 The cherubim lifted up their wings, and mounted up from the earth in my sight when they went out, with the wheels beside them. Then they stood at the door of the east gate of Yahweh’s house; and the glory of the God of Israel was over them above. 
EZE  10\v 19 The cherubim lifted up their wings and mounted up from the earth in my sight when they went out, with the wheels beside them. Then they stood at the door of the east gate of Yahweh’s house; and the glory of the God of Israel was over them above. 
EZE  11\v 1 Moreover the Spirit lifted me up, and brought me to the east gate of Yahweh’s house, which looks eastward. Behold, twenty-five men were at the door of the gate; and I saw among them Jaazaniah the son of Azzur, and Pelatiah the son of Benaiah, princes of the people. 
EZE  11\v 1 Moreover the Spirit lifted me up and brought me to the east gate of Yahweh’s house, which looks eastward. Behold, twenty-five men were at the door of the gate; and I saw among them Jaazaniah the son of Azzur, and Pelatiah the son of Benaiah, princes of the people. 
EZE  11\v 19 I will give them one heart, and I will put a new spirit within you. I will take the stony heart out of their flesh, and will give them a heart of flesh; 
EZE  11\v 19 I will give them one heart, and I will put a new spirit within them. I will take the stony heart out of their flesh, and will give them a heart of flesh, 
EZE  12\v 3 “Therefore, you son of man, prepare your stuff for moving, and move by day in their sight. You shall move from your place to another place in their sight. It may be they will consider, though they are a rebellious house. 
EZE  12\v 3 “Therefore, you son of man, prepare your baggage for moving, and move by day in their sight. You shall move from your place to another place in their sight. It may be they will consider, though they are a rebellious house. 
EZE  12\v 5 Dig through the wall in their sight, and carry your stuff out that way. 
EZE  12\v 5 Dig through the wall in their sight, and carry your baggage out that way. 
EZE  12\v 7 I did so as I was commanded. I brought out my stuff by day, as stuff for moving, and in the evening I dug through the wall with my hand. I brought it out in the dark, and bore it on my shoulder in their sight. 
EZE  12\v 7 I did so as I was commanded. I brought out my baggage by day, as baggage for moving, and in the evening I dug through the wall with my hand. I brought it out in the dark, and bore it on my shoulder in their sight. 
EZE  12\v 15 “‘They will know that I am Yahweh when I disperse them among the nations, and scatter them through the countries. 
EZE  12\v 15 “‘They will know that I am Yahweh when I disperse them among the nations and scatter them through the countries. 
EZE  12\v 19 Tell the people of the land, ‘The Lord Yahweh says concerning the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and the land of Israel: “They will eat their bread with fearfulness, and drink their water in dismay, that her land may be desolate, and all that is therein, because of the violence of all those who dwell therein. 
EZE  12\v 19 Tell the people of the land, ‘The Lord Yahweh says concerning the inhabitants of Jerusalem and the land of Israel: “They will eat their bread with fearfulness and drink their water in dismay, that her land may be desolate, and all that is therein, because of the violence of all those who dwell therein. 
EZE  12\v 25 For I am Yahweh. I will speak, and the word that I speak will be performed. It will be no more deferred; for in your days, rebellious house, I will speak the word, and will perform it,” says the Lord Yahweh.’” 
EZE  12\v 25 For I am Yahweh. I will speak, and the word that I speak will be performed. It will be no more deferred; for in your days, rebellious house, I will speak the word and will perform it,” says the Lord Yahweh.’” 
EZE  13\v 15 Thus I will accomplish my wrath on the wall, and on those who have plastered it with whitewash. I will tell you, ‘The wall is no more, neither those who plastered it; 
EZE  13\v 15 Thus I will accomplish my wrath on the wall, and on those who have plastered it with whitewash. I will tell you, ‘The wall is no more, nor those who plastered it— 
EZE  13\v 19 You have profaned me among my people for handfuls of barley and for pieces of bread, to kill the souls who should not die, and to save the souls alive who should not live, by your lying to my people who listen to lies.’ 
EZE  13\v 19 You have profaned me among my people for handfuls of barley and for pieces of bread, to kill the souls who should not die and to save the souls alive who should not live, by your lying to my people who listen to lies.’ 
EZE  13\v 21 I will also tear your kerchiefs, and deliver my people out of your hand, and they will be no more in your hand to be hunted. Then you will know that I am Yahweh. 
EZE  13\v 21 I will also tear your veils and deliver my people out of your hand; and they will no longer be in your hand to be ensnared. Then you will know that I am Yahweh. 
EZE  14\v 23 Therefore you shall no more see false visions, nor practice divination. I will deliver my people out of your hand. Then you will know that I am Yahweh.’” 
EZE  14\v 23 Therefore you shall no more see false visions nor practice divination. I will deliver my people out of your hand. Then you will know that I am Yahweh.’” 
EZE  14\v 1 Then some of the elders of Israel came to me, and sat before me. 
EZE  14\v 1 Then some of the elders of Israel came to me and sat before me. 
EZE  14\v 7 “‘“For everyone of the house of Israel, or of the strangers who live in Israel, who separates himself from me, and takes his idols into his heart, and puts the stumbling block of his iniquity before his face, and comes to the prophet to inquire for himself of me; I Yahweh will answer him by myself. 
EZE  14\v 7 “‘“For everyone of the house of Israel, or of the strangers who live in Israel, who separates himself from me and takes his idols into his heart, and puts the stumbling block of his iniquity before his face, and comes to the prophet to inquire for himself of me, I Yahweh will answer him by myself. 
EZE  14\v 13 “Son of man, when a land sins against me by committing a trespass, and I stretch out my hand on it, and break the staff of its bread, and send famine on it, and cut off from it man and animal; 
EZE  14\v 13 “Son of man, when a land sins against me by committing a trespass, and I stretch out my hand on it, and break the staff of its bread and send famine on it, and cut off from it man and animal— 
EZE  14\v 15 “If I cause evil animals to pass through the land, and they ravage it, and it is made desolate, so that no man may pass through because of the animals; 
EZE  14\v 15 “If I cause evil animals to pass through the land, and they ravage it and it is made desolate, so that no man may pass through because of the animals— 
EZE  14\v 17 “Or if I bring a sword on that land, and say, ‘Sword, go through the land; so that I cut off from it man and animal;’ 
EZE  14\v 17 “Or if I bring a sword on that land, and say, ‘Sword, go through the land, so that I cut off from it man and animal’— 
EZE  14\v 19 “Or if I send a pestilence into that land, and pour out my wrath on it in blood, to cut off from it man and animal; 
EZE  14\v 19 “Or if I send a pestilence into that land, and pour out my wrath on it in blood, to cut off from it man and animal— 
EZE  14\v 21 For the Lord Yahweh says: “How much more when I send my four severe judgments on Jerusalem, the sword, the famine, the evil animals, and the pestilence, to cut off from it man and animal! 
EZE  14\v 21 For the Lord Yahweh says: “How much more when I send my four severe judgments on Jerusalem—the sword, the famine, the evil animals, and the pestilence—to cut off from it man and animal! 
EZE  15\v 7 I will set my face against them. They will go out from the fire, but the fire will devour them. Then you will know that I am Yahweh, when I set my face against them. 
EZE  15\v 7 I will set my face against them. They will go out from the fire, but the fire will still devour them. Then you will know that I am Yahweh, when I set my face against them. 
EZE  16\v 7 I caused you to multiply as that which grows in the field, and you increased and grew great, and you attained to excellent ornament. Your breasts were formed, and your hair grew; yet you were naked and bare. 
EZE  16\v 7 I caused you to multiply as that which grows in the field, and you increased and grew great, and you attained to excellent beauty. Your breasts were formed, and your hair grew; yet you were naked and bare. 
EZE  16\v 21 that you have slain my children, and delivered them up, in causing them to pass through the fire to them? 
EZE  16\v 21 that you have slain my children and delivered them up, in causing them to pass through the fire to them? 
EZE  16\v 39 I will also give you into their hand, and they will throw down your vaulted place, and break down your lofty places. They will strip you of your clothes, and take your beautiful jewels. They will leave you naked and bare. 
EZE  16\v 39 I will also give you into their hand, and they will throw down your vaulted place, and break down your lofty places. They will strip you of your clothes and take your beautiful jewels. They will leave you naked and bare. 
EZE  16\v 61 Then you will remember your ways and be ashamed, when you receive your sisters, your elder sisters and your younger; and I will give them to you for daughters, but not by your covenant. 
EZE  16\v 61 Then you will remember your ways and be ashamed when you receive your sisters, your elder sisters and your younger; and I will give them to you for daughters, but not by your covenant. 
EZE  17\v 63 that you may remember, and be confounded, and never open your mouth any more, because of your shame, when I have forgiven you all that you have done,” says the Lord Yahweh.’” 
EZE  17\v 63 that you may remember, and be confounded, and never open your mouth any more because of your shame, when I have forgiven you all that you have done,” says the Lord Yahweh.’” 
EZE  17\v 3 and say, ‘The Lord Yahweh says: “A great eagle with great wings and long feathers, full of feathers, which had various colors, came to Lebanon, and took the top of the cedar. 
EZE  17\v 3 and say, ‘The Lord Yahweh says: “A great eagle with great wings and long feathers, full of feathers which had various colors, came to Lebanon and took the top of the cedar. 
EZE  17\v 5 “‘“He also took some of the seed of the land, and planted it in fruitful soil. He placed it beside many waters. He set it as a willow tree. 
EZE  17\v 5 “‘“He also took some of the seed of the land and planted it in fruitful soil. He placed it beside many waters. He set it as a willow tree. 
EZE  17\v 7 “‘“There was also another great eagle with great wings and many feathers. Behold, this vine bent its roots toward him, and shot out its branches toward him, from the beds of its plantation, that he might water it. 
EZE  17\v 7 “‘“There was also another great eagle with great wings and many feathers. Behold, this vine bent its roots toward him, and shot out its branches toward him, from the ground where it was planted, that he might water it. 
EZE  17\v 9 “Say, ‘The Lord Yahweh says: “Will it prosper? Won’t he pull up its roots, and cut off its fruit, that it may wither; that all its fresh springing leaves may wither? It can’t be raised from its roots by a strong arm or many people. 
EZE  17\v 9 “Say, ‘The Lord Yahweh says: “Will it prosper? Won’t he pull up its roots and cut off its fruit, that it may wither, that all its fresh springing leaves may wither? It can’t be raised from its roots by a strong arm or many people. 
EZE  17\v 13 He took some of the royal offspring,\f + \fr 17:13  \ft or, seed\f* and made a covenant with him. He also brought him under an oath, and took away the mighty of the land; 
EZE  17\v 13 He took one of the royal offspring,\f + \fr 17:13  \ft or, seed\f* and made a covenant with him. He also brought him under an oath, and took away the mighty of the land, 
EZE  17\v 17 Pharaoh with his mighty army and great company won’t help him in the war, when they cast up mounds and build forts, to cut off many persons. 
EZE  17\v 17 Pharaoh with his mighty army and great company won’t help him in the war, when they cast up mounds and build forts to cut off many persons. 
EZE  18\v 14 “Now, behold, if he fathers a son, who sees all his father’s sins, which he has done, and fears, and doesn’t do likewise, 
EZE  18\v 14 “Now, behold, if he fathers a son who sees all his father’s sins which he has done, and fears, and doesn’t do likewise, 
EZE  18\v 26 When the righteous man turns away from his righteousness, and commits iniquity, and dies therein; in his iniquity that he has done he shall die. 
EZE  18\v 26 When the righteous man turns away from his righteousness, and commits iniquity, and dies in it, then he dies in his iniquity that he has done. 
EZE  18\v 30 “Therefore I will judge you, house of Israel, everyone according to his ways,” says the Lord Yahweh. “Return, and turn yourselves from all your transgressions; so iniquity will not be your ruin. 
EZE  18\v 30 “Therefore I will judge you, house of Israel, everyone according to his ways,” says the Lord Yahweh. “Return, and turn yourselves from all your transgressions, so iniquity will not be your ruin. 
EZE  19\v 10 “‘Your mother was like a vine 
EZE  19\v 10 “‘Your mother was like a vine in your blood, planted by the waters. 
EZE  20\v 9 But I worked for my name’s sake, that it should not be profaned in the sight of the nations, among which they were, in whose sight I made myself known to them, in bringing them out of the land of Egypt. 
EZE  20\v 9 But I worked for my name’s sake, that it should not be profaned in the sight of the nations among which they were, in whose sight I made myself known to them in bringing them out of the land of Egypt. 
EZE  20\v 11 I gave them my statutes, and showed them my ordinances, which if a man does, he will live in them. 
EZE  20\v 11 I gave them my statutes and showed them my ordinances, which if a man does, he will live in them. 
EZE  20\v 13 “‘“But the house of Israel rebelled against me in the wilderness. They didn’t walk in my statutes, and they rejected my ordinances, which if a man keeps, he shall live in them. They greatly profaned my Sabbaths. Then I said I would pour out my wrath on them in the wilderness, to consume them. 
EZE  20\v 13 “‘“But the house of Israel rebelled against me in the wilderness. They didn’t walk in my statutes and they rejected my ordinances, which if a man keeps, he shall live in them. They greatly profaned my Sabbaths. Then I said I would pour out my wrath on them in the wilderness, to consume them. 
EZE  20\v 15 Moreover also I swore to them in the wilderness, that I would not bring them into the land which I had given them, flowing with milk and honey, which is the glory of all lands; 
EZE  20\v 15 Moreover also I swore to them in the wilderness that I would not bring them into the land which I had given them, flowing with milk and honey, which is the glory of all lands, 
EZE  20\v 23 Moreover I swore to them in the wilderness, that I would scatter them among the nations, and disperse them through the countries; 
EZE  20\v 23 Moreover I swore to them in the wilderness, that I would scatter them among the nations and disperse them through the countries, 
EZE  20\v 25 Moreover also I gave them statutes that were not good, and ordinances in which they should not live. 
EZE  20\v 25 Moreover also I gave them statutes that were not good, and ordinances in which they couldn’t live. 
EZE  20\v 33 As I live, says the Lord Yahweh, surely with a mighty hand, with an outstretched arm, and with wrath poured out, I will be king over you. 
EZE  20\v 33 As I live,” says the Lord Yahweh, “surely with a mighty hand, with an outstretched arm, and with wrath poured out, I will be king over you. 
EZE  21\v 5 Those who are near, and those who are far from you, will mock you, you infamous one, full of tumult. 
EZE  21\v 5 Those who are near and those who are far from you will mock you, you infamous one, full of tumult. 
EZE  21\v 11 One has committed abomination with his neighbor’s wife; and another has lewdly defiled his daughter-in-law. Another in you has humbled his sister, his father’s daughter. 
EZE  21\v 11 One has committed abomination with his neighbor’s wife, and another has lewdly defiled his daughter-in-law. Another in you has humbled his sister, his father’s daughter. 
EZE  21\v 13 “‘“Behold, therefore I have struck my hand at your dishonest gain which you have made, and at your blood which has been within you. 
EZE  21\v 13 “‘“Behold, therefore I have struck my hand at your dishonest gain which you have made, and at the blood which has been shed within you. 
EZE  21\v 15 I will scatter you among the nations, and disperse you through the countries. I will consume your filthiness out of you. 
EZE  21\v 15 I will scatter you among the nations, and disperse you through the countries. I will purge your filthiness out of you. 
EZE  21\v 27 Her princes within it are like wolves ravening the prey, to shed blood, and to destroy souls, that they may get dishonest gain. 
EZE  21\v 27 Her princes within it are like wolves ravening the prey, to shed blood and to destroy souls, that they may get dishonest gain. 
EZE  23\v 9 “Therefore I delivered her into the hand of her lovers, into the hand of the Assyrians, on whom she doted. 
EZE  23\v 9 “Therefore I delivered her into the hand of her lovers, into the hand of the Assyrians on whom she doted. 
EZE  23\v 27 Thus I will make your lewdness to cease from you, and remove your prostitution from the land of Egypt; so that you will not lift up your eyes to them, nor remember Egypt any more.’ 
EZE  23\v 27 Thus I will make your lewdness to cease from you, and remove your prostitution from the land of Egypt, so that you will not lift up your eyes to them, nor remember Egypt any more.’ 
EZE  23\v 35 “Therefore the Lord Yahweh says: ‘Because you have forgotten me, and cast me behind your back, therefore you also bear your lewdness and your prostitution.’” 
EZE  23\v 35 “Therefore the Lord Yahweh says: ‘Because you have forgotten me and cast me behind your back, therefore you also bear your lewdness and your prostitution.’” 
EZE  23\v 45 Righteous men will judge them with the judgment of adulteresses and with the judgment of women who shed blood; because they are adulteresses, and blood is in their hands. 
EZE  23\v 45 Righteous men will judge them with the judgment of adulteresses and with the judgment of women who shed blood, because they are adulteresses, and blood is in their hands. 
EZE  23\v 47 The company will stone them with stones, and dispatch them with their swords. They will kill their sons and their daughters, and burn up their houses with fire. 
EZE  23\v 47 The company will stone them with stones and dispatch them with their swords. They will kill their sons and their daughters, and burn up their houses with fire. 
EZE  24\v 7 “‘“For her blood is in the middle of her. 
EZE  24\v 7 “‘“For the blood she shed is in the middle of her. 
EZE  24\v 19 The people asked me, “Won’t you tell us what these things are to us, that you do so?” 
EZE  24\v 19 The people asked me, “Won’t you tell us what these things mean to us, that you act like this?” 
EZE  24\v 25 “You, son of man, shouldn’t it be in the day when I take from them their strength, the joy of their glory, the desire of their eyes, and that whereupon they set their heart, their sons and their daughters, 
EZE  24\v 25 “You, son of man, shouldn’t it be in the day when I take from them their strength, the joy of their glory, the desire of their eyes, and that whereupon they set their hear—their sons and their daughters— 
EZE  25\v 27 In that day your mouth will be opened to him who has escaped, and you will speak, and be no more mute. So you will be a sign to them. Then they will know that I am Yahweh.” 
EZE  25\v 27 In that day your mouth will be opened to him who has escaped, and you will speak and be no more mute. So you will be a sign to them. Then they will know that I am Yahweh.” 
EZE  25\v 3 Tell the children of Ammon, ‘Hear the word of the Lord Yahweh! The Lord Yahweh says, “Because you said, ‘Aha!’ against my sanctuary, when it was profaned, and against the land of Israel, when it was made desolate, and against the house of Judah, when they went into captivity: 
EZE  25\v 3 Tell the children of Ammon, ‘Hear the word of the Lord Yahweh! The Lord Yahweh says, “Because you said, ‘Aha!’ against my sanctuary when it was profaned, and against the land of Israel when it was made desolate, and against the house of Judah when they went into captivity, 
EZE  25\v 5 I will make Rabbah a stable for camels, and the children of Ammon a resting place for flocks. Then you will know that I am Yahweh.” 
EZE  25\v 5 I will make Rabbah a stable for camels and the children of Ammon a resting place for flocks. Then you will know that I am Yahweh.” 
EZE  25\v 9 therefore, behold, I will open the side of Moab from the cities, from his cities which are on his frontiers, the glory of the country, Beth Jeshimoth, Baal Meon, and Kiriathaim, 
EZE  25\v 9 therefore, behold, I will open the side of Moab from the cities, from his cities which are on its frontiers, the glory of the country, Beth Jeshimoth, Baal Meon, and Kiriathaim, 
EZE  25\v 15 “‘The Lord Yahweh says: “Because the Philistines have taken revenge, and have taken vengeance with contempt of soul to destroy with perpetual hostility;” 
EZE  25\v 15 “‘The Lord Yahweh says: “Because the Philistines have taken revenge, and have taken vengeance with contempt of soul to destroy with perpetual hostility,” 
EZE  26\v 19 “For the Lord Yahweh says: ‘When I make you a desolate city, like the cities that are not inhabited; when I bring up the deep on you, and the great waters cover you; 
EZE  26\v 19 “For the Lord Yahweh says: ‘When I make you a desolate city, like the cities that are not inhabited, when I bring up the deep on you, and the great waters cover you, 
EZE  27\v 18 “‘“Damascus was your merchant for the multitude of your handiworks, by reason of the multitude of all kinds of riches, with the wine of Helbon, and white wool. 
EZE  27\v 18 “‘“Damascus was your merchant for the multitude of your handiworks by reason of the multitude of all kinds of riches, with the wine of Helbon, and white wool. 
EZE  27\v 20 “‘“Dedan was your trafficker in precious saddlecloths for riding. 
EZE  27\v 20 “‘“Dedan was your merchant in precious saddle blankets for riding. 
EZE  27\v 22 “‘“The traders of Sheba and Raamah were your traders. They traded for your wares with the chief of all spices, and with all precious stones, and gold. 
EZE  27\v 22 “‘“The traders of Sheba and Raamah were your traders. They traded for your wares with the best of all spices, all precious stones, and gold. 
EZE  27\v 24 These were your traders in choice wares, in wrappings of blue and embroidered work, and in chests of rich clothing, bound with cords and made of cedar, among your merchandise. 
EZE  27\v 24 These were your traders in choice wares, in wrappings of blue and embroidered work, and in cedar chests of rich clothing bound with cords, among your merchandise. 
EZE  28\v 3 behold, you are wiser than Daniel; 
EZE  28\v 3 behold, you are wiser than Daniel. 
EZE  28\v 5 by your great wisdom 
EZE  28\v 5 By your great wisdom 
EZE  29\v 26 They will dwell in it securely. Yes, they will build houses, plant vineyards, and will dwell securely when I have executed judgments on all those who scorn them all around. Then they will know that I am Yahweh their God.”’” 
EZE  29\v 26 They will dwell in it securely. Yes, they will build houses, plant vineyards, and will dwell securely when I have executed judgments on all those around them who have treated them with contempt. Then they will know that I am Yahweh their God.”’” 
EZE  29\v 7 When they took hold of you by your hand, you broke, and tore all their shoulders. When they leaned on you, you broke, and paralyzed all of their thighs.” 
EZE  29\v 7 When they took hold of you by your hand, you broke and tore all their shoulders. When they leaned on you, you broke and paralyzed all of their thighs.” 
EZE  29\v 15 It will be the lowest of the kingdoms. It won’t lift itself up above the nations any more. I will diminish them, so that they will no longer rule over the nations. 
EZE  29\v 15 It will be the lowest of the kingdoms. It won’t lift itself up above the nations any more. I will diminish them so that they will no longer rule over the nations. 
EZE  31\v 26 I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and disperse them through the countries. Then they will know that I am Yahweh.’” 
EZE  31\v 26 I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations and disperse them through the countries. Then they will know that I am Yahweh.’” 
EZE  31\v 11 I will even deliver him into the hand of the mighty one of the nations. He will surely deal with him. I have driven him out for his wickedness. 
EZE  31\v 11 I will deliver him into the hand of the mighty one of the nations. He will surely deal with him. I have driven him out for his wickedness. 
EZE  31\v 13 All the birds of the sky will dwell on his ruin, and all the animals of the field will be on his branches; 
EZE  31\v 13 All the birds of the sky will dwell on his ruin, and all the animals of the field will be on his branches, 
EZE  32\v 25 They have set her a bed among the slain with all her multitude. Her graves are around her; all of them uncircumcised, slain by the sword; for their terror was caused in the land of the living, and they have borne their shame with those who go down to the pit. He is put among those who are slain. 
EZE  32\v 25 They have made Elam a bed among the slain with all her multitude. Her graves are around her, all of them uncircumcised, slain by the sword; for their terror was caused in the land of the living, and they have borne their shame with those who go down to the pit. He is put among those who are slain. 
EZE  32\v 27 They will not lie with the mighty who are fallen of the uncircumcised, who have gone down to Sheol with their weapons of war, and have laid their swords under their heads, and their iniquities are on their bones; for they were the terror of the mighty in the land of the living. 
EZE  32\v 27 They will not lie with the mighty who are fallen of the uncircumcised, who have gone down to Sheol with their weapons of war and have laid their swords under their heads. Their iniquities are on their bones; for they were the terror of the mighty in the land of the living. 
EZE  32\v 31 “Pharaoh will see them, and will be comforted over all his multitude, even Pharaoh and all his army, slain by the sword,” says the Lord Yahweh. 
EZE  32\v 31 “Pharaoh will see them and will be comforted over all his multitude, even Pharaoh and all his army, slain by the sword,” says the Lord Yahweh. 
EZE  33\v 3 if, when he sees the sword come on the land, he blows the trumpet, and warns the people; 
EZE  33\v 3 if, when he sees the sword come on the land, he blows the trumpet and warns the people, 
EZE  33\v 5 He heard the sound of the trumpet, and didn’t take warning. His blood will be on him; whereas if he had heeded the warning, he would have delivered his soul. 
EZE  33\v 5 He heard the sound of the trumpet and didn’t take warning. His blood will be on him; whereas if he had heeded the warning, he would have delivered his soul. 
EZE  33\v 11 Tell them, ‘“As I live,” says the Lord Yahweh, “I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked; but that the wicked turn from his way and live. Turn, turn from your evil ways! For why will you die, house of Israel?”’ 
EZE  33\v 11 Tell them, ‘“As I live,” says the Lord Yahweh, “I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked, but that the wicked turn from his way and live. Turn, turn from your evil ways! For why will you die, house of Israel?”’ 
EZE  33\v 13 When I tell the righteous that he will surely live; if he trusts in his righteousness, and commits iniquity, none of his righteous deeds will be remembered; but he will die in his iniquity that he has committed. 
EZE  33\v 13 When I tell the righteous that he will surely live, if he trusts in his righteousness and commits iniquity, none of his righteous deeds will be remembered; but he will die in his iniquity that he has committed. 
EZE  33\v 15 if the wicked restore the pledge, give again that which he had taken by robbery, walk in the statutes of life, committing no iniquity; he will surely live. He will not die. 
EZE  33\v 15 if the wicked restore the pledge, give again that which he had taken by robbery, walk in the statutes of life, committing no iniquity, he will surely live. He will not die. 
EZE  33\v 19 When the wicked turns from his wickedness, and does that which is lawful and right, he will live by it. 
EZE  33\v 19 When the wicked turns from his wickedness and does that which is lawful and right, he will live by it. 
EZE  33\v 27 “You shall tell them, ‘The Lord Yahweh says: “As I live, surely those who are in the waste places will fall by the sword. I will give whoever is in the open field to the animals to be devoured; and those who are in the strongholds and in the caves will die of the pestilence. 
EZE  33\v 27 “You shall tell them, ‘The Lord Yahweh says: “As I live, surely those who are in the waste places will fall by the sword. I will give whoever is in the open field to the animals to be devoured, and those who are in the strongholds and in the caves will die of the pestilence. 
EZE  33\v 29 Then they will know that I am Yahweh, when I have made the land a desolation and an astonishment, because of all their abominations which they have committed.”’ 
EZE  33\v 29 Then they will know that I am Yahweh, when I have made the land a desolation and an astonishment because of all their abominations which they have committed.”’ 
EZE  34\v 9 Therefore, you shepherds, hear Yahweh’s word: 
EZE  34\v 9 therefore, you shepherds, hear Yahweh’s word!” 
EZE  34\v 21 Because you thrust with side and with shoulder, and push all the diseased with your horns, until you have scattered them abroad; 
EZE  34\v 21 Because you thrust with side and with shoulder, and push all the diseased with your horns, until you have scattered them abroad, 
EZE  34\v 25 “‘I will make with them a covenant of peace, and will cause evil animals to cease out of the land. They will dwell securely in the wilderness, and sleep in the woods. 
EZE  34\v 25 “‘I will make with them a covenant of peace, and will cause evil animals to cease out of the land. They will dwell securely in the wilderness and sleep in the woods. 
EZE  35\v 5 “‘“Because you have had a perpetual hostility, and have given over the children of Israel to the power of the sword in the time of their calamity, in the time of the iniquity of the end; 
EZE  35\v 5 “‘“Because you have had a perpetual hostility, and have given over the children of Israel to the power of the sword in the time of their calamity, in the time of the iniquity of the end, 
EZE  36\v 25 I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you will be clean. I will cleanse you from all your filthiness, and from all your idols. 
EZE  36\v 25 I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you will be clean. I will cleanse you from all your filthiness and from all your idols. 
EZE  36\v 29 I will save you from all your uncleanness. I will call for the grain, and will multiply it, and lay no famine on you. 
EZE  36\v 29 I will save you from all your uncleanness. I will call for the grain and will multiply it, and lay no famine on you. 
EZE  37\v 13 You will know that I am Yahweh, when I have opened your graves, and caused you to come up out of your graves, my people. 
EZE  37\v 13 You will know that I am Yahweh, when I have opened your graves and caused you to come up out of your graves, my people. 
EZE  37\v 21 Say to them, ‘The Lord Yahweh says: “Behold, I will take the children of Israel from among the nations, where they have gone, and will gather them on every side, and bring them into their own land. 
EZE  37\v 21 Say to them, ‘The Lord Yahweh says: “Behold, I will take the children of Israel from among the nations where they have gone, and will gather them on every side, and bring them into their own land. 
EZE  37\v 23 They won’t defile themselves any more with their idols, nor with their detestable things, nor with any of their transgressions; but I will save them out of all their dwelling places, in which they have sinned, and will cleanse them. So they will be my people, and I will be their God. 
EZE  37\v 23 They won’t defile themselves any more with their idols, nor with their detestable things, nor with any of their transgressions; but I will save them out of all their dwelling places in which they have sinned, and will cleanse them. So they will be my people, and I will be their God. 
EZE  38\v 9 You will ascend. You will come like a storm. You will be like a cloud to cover the land, you, and all your hordes, and many peoples with you.” 
EZE  38\v 9 You will ascend. You will come like a storm. You will be like a cloud to cover the land, you and all your hordes, and many peoples with you.” 
EZE  38\v 19 For in my jealousy and in the fire of my wrath I have spoken. Surely in that day there will be a great shaking in the land of Israel; 
EZE  38\v 19 For in my jealousy and in the fire of my wrath I have spoken. Surely in that day there will be a great shaking in the land of Israel, 
EZE  39\v 23 I will magnify myself, and sanctify myself, and I will make myself known in the eyes of many nations. Then they will know that I am Yahweh.”’ 
EZE  39\v 23 I will magnify myself and sanctify myself, and I will make myself known in the eyes of many nations. Then they will know that I am Yahweh.”’ 
EZE  39\v 5 You will fall on the open field; for I have spoken it,” says the Lord Yahweh. 
EZE  39\v 5 You will fall on the open field, for I have spoken it,” says the Lord Yahweh. 
EZE  39\v 9 “‘“Those who dwell in the cities of Israel will go out, and will make fires of the weapons and burn them, both the shields and the bucklers, the bows and the arrows, and the war clubs and the spears, and they will make fires with them for seven years; 
EZE  39\v 9 “‘“Those who dwell in the cities of Israel will go out and will make fires of the weapons and burn them, both the shields and the bucklers, the bows and the arrows, and the war clubs and the spears, and they will make fires with them for seven years; 
EZE  39\v 11 “‘“It will happen in that day, that I will give to Gog a place for burial in Israel, the valley of those who pass through on the east of the sea; and it will stop those who pass through. They will bury Gog and all his multitude there; and they will call it ‘The valley of Hamon Gog’. 
EZE  39\v 11 “‘“It will happen in that day, that I will give to Gog a place for burial in Israel, the valley of those who pass through on the east of the sea; and it will stop those who pass through. They will bury Gog and all his multitude there, and they will call it ‘The valley of Hamon Gog’. 
EZE  39\v 15 Those who pass through the land will pass through; and when anyone sees a man’s bone, then he will set up a sign by it, until the undertakers have buried it in the valley of Hamon Gog. 
EZE  39\v 15 Those who search through the land will pass through; and when anyone sees a man’s bone, then he will set up a sign by it, until the undertakers have buried it in the valley of Hamon Gog. 
EZE  39\v 23 The nations will know that the house of Israel went into captivity for their iniquity; because they trespassed against me, and I hid my face from them; so I gave them into the hand of their adversaries, and they all fell by the sword. 
EZE  39\v 23 The nations will know that the house of Israel went into captivity for their iniquity, because they trespassed against me, and I hid my face from them; so I gave them into the hand of their adversaries, and they all fell by the sword. 
EZE  39\v 25 “Therefore the Lord Yahweh says: ‘Now I will reverse the captivity of Jacob, and have mercy on the whole house of Israel. I will be jealous for my holy name. 
EZE  39\v 25 “Therefore the Lord Yahweh says: ‘Now I will reverse the captivity of Jacob and have mercy on the whole house of Israel. I will be jealous for my holy name. 
EZE  39\v 27 when I have brought them back from the peoples, and gathered them out of their enemies’ lands, and am sanctified in them in the sight of many nations. 
EZE  39\v 27 when I have brought them back from the peoples, gathered them out of their enemies’ lands, and am shown holy among them in the sight of many nations. 
EZE  40\v 29 I won’t hide my face from them any more; for I have poured out my Spirit on the house of Israel,’ says the Lord Yahweh.” 
EZE  40\v 29 I won’t hide my face from them any more, for I have poured out my Spirit on the house of Israel,’ says the Lord Yahweh.” 
EZE  40\v 3 He brought me there; and, behold, there was a man, whose appearance was like the appearance of bronze, with a line of flax in his hand, and a measuring reed; and he stood in the gate. 
EZE  40\v 3 He brought me there; and, behold, there was a man whose appearance was like the appearance of bronze, with a line of flax in his hand and a measuring reed; and he stood in the gate. 
EZE  40\v 13 He measured the gate from the roof of the one lodge to the roof of the other, a width of twenty-five cubits, door against door. 
EZE  40\v 13 He measured the gate from the roof of the one side room to the roof of the other, a width of twenty-five cubits, door against door. 
EZE  40\v 25 There were windows in it and in its arches all around, like those windows: the length was fifty cubits, and the width twenty-five cubits. 
EZE  40\v 25 There were windows in it and in its arches all around, like the other windows: the length was fifty cubits, and the width twenty-five cubits. 
EZE  40\v 35 He brought me to the north gate, and he measured it according to these measurements; 
EZE  40\v 35 He brought me to the north gate, and he measured it according to these measurements— 
EZE  40\v 39 In the porch of the gate were two tables on this side, and two tables on that side, on which to kill the burnt offering, the sin offering, and the trespass offering. 
EZE  40\v 39 In the porch of the gate were two tables on this side and two tables on that side, on which to kill the burnt offering, the sin offering, and the trespass offering. 
EZE  40\v 45 He said to me, “This room, which faces toward the south, is for the priests, the keepers of the duty of the house. 
EZE  40\v 45 He said to me, “This room, which faces toward the south, is for the priests who perform the duty of the house. 
EZE  40\v 47 He measured the court, one hundred cubits long, and a hundred cubits wide, square. The altar was before the house. 
EZE  40\v 47 He measured the court, one hundred cubits long and one hundred cubits wide, square. The altar was before the house. 
EZE  41\v 49 The length of the porch was twenty cubits, and the width eleven cubits; even by the steps by which they went up to it. There were pillars by the posts, one on this side, and another on that side. 
EZE  41\v 49 The length of the porch was twenty cubits and the width eleven cubits, even by the steps by which they went up to it. There were pillars by the posts, one on this side, and another on that side. 
EZE  41\v 1 He brought me to the temple, and measured the posts, six cubits wide on the one side, and six cubits wide on the other side, which was the width of the tent. 
EZE  41\v 1 He brought me to the nave and measured the posts, six cubits wide on the one side and six cubits wide on the other side, which was the width of the tent. 
EZE  41\v 9 The thickness of the wall, which was for the side rooms, on the outside, was five cubits. That which was left was the place of the side rooms that belonged to the house. 
EZE  41\v 9 The thickness of the outer wall of the side rooms was five cubits. That which was left was the place of the side rooms that belonged to the house. 
EZE  41\v 13 So he measured the house, one hundred cubits long; and the separate place, and the building, with its walls, one hundred cubits long; 
EZE  41\v 13 So he measured the temple, one hundred cubits long; and the separate place, and the building, with its walls, one hundred cubits long; 
EZE  41\v 15 He measured the length of the building before the separate place which was at its back, and its galleries on the one side and on the other side, one hundred cubits from the inner temple, and the porches of the court 
EZE  41\v 15 He measured the length of the building before the separate place which was at its back, and its galleries on the one side and on the other side, one hundred cubits from the inner temple, and the porches of the court, 
EZE  41\v 21 As for the temple, the door posts were squared. As for the face of the sanctuary, its appearance was as the appearance of the temple. 
EZE  41\v 21 The door posts of the nave were squared. As for the face of the nave, its appearance was as the appearance of the temple. 
EZE  41\v 25 There were made on them, on the doors of the temple, cherubim and palm trees, like those made on the walls. There was a threshold of wood on the face of the porch outside. 
EZE  41\v 25 There were made on them, on the doors of the nave, cherubim and palm trees, like those made on the walls. There was a threshold of wood on the face of the porch outside. 
EZE  42\v 3 Opposite the twenty cubits which belonged to the inner court, and opposite the pavement which belonged to the outer court, was gallery against gallery in the third floor. 
EZE  42\v 3 Opposite the twenty cubits which belonged to the inner court, and opposite the pavement which belonged to the outer court, was gallery against gallery in the three stories. 
EZE  42\v 5 Now the upper rooms were shorter; for the galleries took away from these, more than from the lower and the middle, in the building. 
EZE  42\v 5 Now the upper rooms were shorter; for the galleries took away from these more than from the lower and the middle in the building. 
EZE  42\v 7 The wall that was outside by the side of the rooms, toward the outer court before the rooms, its length was fifty cubits. 
EZE  42\v 7 The wall that was outside by the side of the rooms, toward the outer court before the rooms, was fifty cubits long. 
EZE  42\v 11 The way before them was like the appearance of the rooms which were toward the north; according to their length so was their width: and all their exits were both according to their fashions, and according to their doors. 
EZE  42\v 11 The way before them was like the appearance of the rooms which were toward the north. Their length and width were the same. All their exits had the same arrangement and doors. 
EZE  42\v 13 Then he said to me, “The north rooms and the south rooms, which are before the separate place, are the holy rooms, where the priests who are near to Yahweh shall eat the most holy things. There they shall lay the most holy things, with the meal offering, the sin offering, and the trespass offering; for the place is holy. 
EZE  42\v 13 Then he said to me, “The north rooms and the south rooms, which are opposite the separate place, are the holy rooms, where the priests who are near to Yahweh shall eat the most holy things. There they shall lay the most holy things, with the meal offering, the sin offering, and the trespass offering; for the place is holy. 
EZE  43\v 3 It was according to the appearance of the vision which I saw, even according to the vision that I saw when I came to destroy the city; and the visions were like the vision that I saw by the river Chebar; and I fell on my face. 
EZE  43\v 3 It was like the appearance of the vision which I saw, even according to the vision that I saw when I came to destroy the city; and the visions were like the vision that I saw by the river Chebar; and I fell on my face. 
EZE  43\v 5 The Spirit took me up, and brought me into the inner court; and behold, Yahweh’s glory filled the house. 
EZE  43\v 5 The Spirit took me up and brought me into the inner court; and behold, Yahweh’s glory filled the house. 
EZE  43\v 7 He said to me, “Son of man, this is the place of my throne, and the place of the soles of my feet, where I will dwell among the children of Israel forever. The house of Israel will no more defile my holy name, neither they, nor their kings, by their prostitution, and by the dead bodies of their kings in their high places; 
EZE  43\v 7 He said to me, “Son of man, this is the place of my throne and the place of the soles of my feet, where I will dwell among the children of Israel forever. The house of Israel will no more defile my holy name, neither they nor their kings, by their prostitution and by the dead bodies of their kings in their high places; 
EZE  43\v 9 Now let them put away their prostitution, and the dead bodies of their kings, far from me. Then I will dwell among them forever. 
EZE  43\v 9 Now let them put away their prostitution, and the dead bodies of their kings far from me. Then I will dwell among them forever. 
EZE  43\v 11 If they are ashamed of all that they have done, make known to them the form of the house, and its fashion, and its exits, and its entrances, and all its forms, and all its ordinances, and all its forms, and all its laws; and write it in their sight; that they may keep the whole form of it, and all its ordinances, and do them. 
EZE  43\v 11 If they are ashamed of all that they have done, make known to them the form of the house, its fashion, its exits, its entrances, its structure, all its ordinances, all its forms, and all its laws; and write it in their sight, that they may keep the whole form of it, and all its ordinances, and do them. 
EZE  43\v 23 When you have finished cleansing it, you shall offer a young bull without defect, and a ram out of the flock without defect. 
EZE  43\v 23 When you have finished cleansing it, you shall offer a young bull without defect and a ram out of the flock without defect. 
EZE  43\v 25 “Seven days you shall prepare every day a goat for a sin offering. They shall also prepare a young bull, and a ram out of the flock, without defect. 
EZE  43\v 25 “Seven days you shall prepare every day a goat for a sin offering. They shall also prepare a young bull and a ram out of the flock, without defect. 
EZE  44\v 27 When they have accomplished the days, it shall be that on the eighth day, and forward, the priests shall make your burnt offerings on the altar, and your peace offerings. Then I will accept you,’ says the Lord Yahweh.” 
EZE  44\v 27 When they have accomplished the days, it shall be that on the eighth day and onward, the priests shall make your burnt offerings on the altar and your peace offerings. Then I will accept you,’ says the Lord Yahweh.” 
EZE  44\v 5 Yahweh said to me, “Son of man, mark well, and see with your eyes, and hear with your ears all that I tell you concerning all the ordinances of Yahweh’s house, and all its laws; and mark well the entrance of the house, with every exit of the sanctuary. 
EZE  44\v 5 Yahweh said to me, “Son of man, mark well, and see with your eyes, and hear with your ears all that I tell you concerning all the ordinances of Yahweh’s house and all its laws; and mark well the entrance of the house, with every exit of the sanctuary. 
EZE  44\v 7 in that you have brought in foreigners, uncircumcised in heart and uncircumcised in flesh, to be in my sanctuary, to profane it, even my house, when you offer my bread, the fat and the blood, and they have broken my covenant, to add to all your abominations. 
EZE  44\v 7 in that you have brought in foreigners, uncircumcised in heart and uncircumcised in flesh, to be in my sanctuary, to profane it, even my house, when you offer my bread, the fat and the blood; and they have broken my covenant, to add to all your abominations. 
EZE  44\v 13 They shall not come near to me, to execute the office of priest to me, nor to come near to any of my holy things, to the things that are most holy; but they will bear their shame, and their abominations which they have committed. 
EZE  44\v 13 They shall not come near to me, to execute the office of priest to me, nor to come near to any of my holy things, to the things that are most holy; but they will bear their shame and their abominations which they have committed. 
EZE  44\v 17 “‘“It will be that, when they enter in at the gates of the inner court, they shall be clothed with linen garments. No wool shall come on them while they minister in the gates of the inner court, and within. 
EZE  44\v 17 “‘“It will be that when they enter in at the gates of the inner court, they shall be clothed with linen garments. No wool shall come on them while they minister in the gates of the inner court, and within. 
EZE  44\v 19 When they go out into the outer court, even into the outer court to the people, they shall put off their garments in which they minister, and lay them in the holy rooms. They shall put on other garments, that they not sanctify the people with their garments. 
EZE  44\v 19 When they go out into the outer court, even into the outer court to the people, they shall put off their garments in which they minister and lay them in the holy rooms. They shall put on other garments, that they not sanctify the people with their garments. 
EZE  45\v 31 The priests shall not eat of anything that dies of itself, or is torn, whether it is bird or animal. 
EZE  45\v 31 The priests shall not eat of anything that dies of itself or is torn, whether it is bird or animal. 
EZE  45\v 5 Twenty-five thousand in length, and ten thousand in width, shall be for the Levites, the ministers of the house, as a possession for themselves, for twenty rooms. 
EZE  45\v 5 Twenty-five thousand cubits in length and ten thousand in width shall be for the Levites, the ministers of the house, as a possession for themselves, for twenty rooms. 
EZE  45\v 7 “‘“What is for the prince shall be on the one side and on the other side of the holy offering and of the possession of the city, in front of the holy offering and in front of the possession of the city, on the west side westward, and on the east side eastward, and in length answerable to one of the portions, from the west border to the east border. 
EZE  45\v 7 “‘“What is for the prince shall be on the one side and on the other side of the holy allotment and of the possession of the city, in front of the holy allotment and in front of the possession of the city, on the west side westward, and on the east side eastward, and in length corresponding to one of the portions, from the west border to the east border. 
EZE  45\v 9 “‘The Lord Yahweh says: “Let it suffice you, princes of Israel: remove violence and plunder, and execute justice and righteousness; dispossessing my people,” says the Lord Yahweh. 
EZE  45\v 9 “‘The Lord Yahweh says: “Enough you, princes of Israel! Remove violence and plunder, and execute justice and righteousness! Stop dispossessing my people!” says the Lord Yahweh. 
EZE  45\v 13 “‘“This is the offering that you shall offer: the sixth part of an ephah from a homer of wheat; and you shall give the sixth part of an ephah from a homer of barley; 
EZE  45\v 13 “‘“This is the offering that you shall offer: the sixth part of an ephah from a homer of wheat, and you shall give the sixth part of an ephah from a homer of barley, 
EZE  45\v 15 and one lamb of the flock, out of two hundred, from the well-watered pastures of Israel—for a meal offering, and for a burnt offering, and for peace offerings, to make atonement for them,” says the Lord Yahweh. 
EZE  45\v 15 and one lamb of the flock out of two hundred, from the well-watered pastures of Israel—for a meal offering, for a burnt offering, and for peace offerings, to make atonement for them,” says the Lord Yahweh. 
EZE  45\v 19 The priest shall take of the blood of the sin offering, and put it on the door posts of the house, and on the four corners of the ledge of the altar, and on the posts of the gate of the inner court. 
EZE  45\v 19 The priest shall take of the blood of the sin offering and put it on the door posts of the house, and on the four corners of the ledge of the altar, and on the posts of the gate of the inner court. 
EZE  45\v 21 “‘“In the first month, in the fourteenth day of the month, you shall have the Passover, a feast of seven days; unleavened bread shall be eaten. 
EZE  45\v 21 “‘“In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, you shall have the Passover, a feast of seven days; unleavened bread shall be eaten. 
EZE  46\v 25 “‘“In the seventh month, in the fifteenth day of the month, in the feast, he shall do like that for seven days; according to the sin offering, according to the burnt offering, and according to the meal offering, and according to the oil.” 
EZE  46\v 25 “‘“In the seventh month, on the fifteenth day of the month, during the feast, he shall do like that for seven days. He shall make the same provision for sin offering, the burnt offering, the meal offering, and the oil.” 
EZE  46\v 7 He shall prepare a meal offering, an ephah for the bull, and an ephah for the ram, and for the lambs according as he is able, and a hin of oil to an ephah. 
EZE  46\v 7 He shall prepare a meal offering: an ephah for the bull, and an ephah for the ram, and for the lambs according as he is able, and a hin of oil to an ephah. 
EZE  46\v 11 “‘“In the feasts and in the solemnities the meal offering shall be an ephah\f + \fr 46:11  \ft 1 ephah is about 22 liters or about 2/3 of a bushel\f* for a bull, and an ephah for a ram, and for the lambs as he is able to give, and a hin of oil to an ephah. 
EZE  46\v 11 “‘“In the feasts and in the appointed holidays, the meal offering shall be an ephah\f + \fr 46:11  \ft 1 ephah is about 22 liters or about 2/3 of a bushel\f* for a bull, and an ephah for a ram, and for the lambs as he is able to give, and a hin of oil to an ephah. 
EZE  46\v 21 Then he brought me out into the outer court, and caused me to pass by the four corners of the court; and behold, in every corner of the court there was a court. 
EZE  46\v 21 Then he brought me out into the outer court and caused me to pass by the four corners of the court; and behold, in every corner of the court there was a court. 
EZE  47\v 1 He brought me back to the door of the house; and behold, waters flowed out from under the threshold of the house eastward, for the front of the house faced toward the east. The waters came down from underneath, from the right side of the house, on the south of the altar. 
EZE  47\v 1 He brought me back to the door of the temple; and behold, waters flowed out from under the threshold of the temple eastward, for the front of the temple faced toward the east. The waters came down from underneath, from the right side of the temple, on the south of the altar. 
EZE  47\v 5 Afterward he measured one thousand; and it was a river that I could not pass through; for the waters had risen, waters to swim in, a river that could not be walked through. 
EZE  47\v 5 Afterward he measured one thousand; and it was a river that I could not pass through, for the waters had risen, waters to swim in, a river that could not be walked through. 
EZE  47\v 9 It will happen, that every living creature which swarms, in every place where the rivers come, will live. Then there will be a very great multitude of fish; for these waters have come there, and the waters of the sea will be healed, and everything will live wherever the river comes. 
EZE  47\v 9 It will happen that every living creature which swarms, in every place where the rivers come, will live. Then there will be a very great multitude of fish; for these waters have come there, and the waters of the sea will be healed, and everything will live wherever the river comes. 
EZE  47\v 11 But the miry places of it, and its marshes, will not be healed. They will be given up to salt. 
EZE  47\v 11 But its swamps marshes will not be healed. They will be given up to salt. 
EZE  47\v 13 The Lord Yahweh says: “This shall be the border, by which you shall divide the land for inheritance according to the twelve tribes of Israel. Joseph shall have two portions. 
EZE  47\v 13 The Lord Yahweh says: “This shall be the border by which you shall divide the land for inheritance according to the twelve tribes of Israel. Joseph shall have two portions. 
EZE  47\v 17 The border from the sea, shall be Hazar Enon at the border of Damascus; and on the north northward is the border of Hamath. This is the north side. 
EZE  47\v 17 The border from the sea shall be Hazar Enon at the border of Damascus; and on the north northward is the border of Hamath. This is the north side. 
EZE  48\v 23 It shall happen, that in whatever tribe the stranger lives, there you shall give him his inheritance,” says the Lord Yahweh. 
EZE  48\v 23 In whatever tribe the stranger lives, there you shall give him his inheritance,” says the Lord Yahweh. 
EZE  48\v 13 “Answerable to the border of the priests, the Levites shall have twenty-five thousand in length, and ten thousand in width. All the length shall be twenty-five thousand, and the width ten thousand. 
EZE  48\v 13 “Alongside the border of the priests, the Levites shall have twenty-five thousand cubits in length and ten thousand in width. All the length shall be twenty-five thousand, and the width ten thousand. 
EZE  48\v 15 “The five thousand that are left in the width, in front of the twenty-five thousand, shall be for common use, for the city, for dwelling and for pasture lands; and the city shall be in the middle of it. 
EZE  48\v 15 “The five thousand cubits that are left in the width, in front of the twenty-five thousand, shall be for common use, for the city, for dwelling and for pasture lands; and the city shall be in the middle of it. 
EZE  48\v 33 “At the south side four thousand and five hundred reeds by measure, and three gates: the gate of Simeon, one; the gate of Issachar, one; the gate of Zebulun, one. 
EZE  48\v 33 “At the south side four thousand five hundred reeds by measure, and three gates: the gate of Simeon, one; the gate of Issachar, one; the gate of Zebulun, one. 
EZE  48\v 35 “It shall be eighteen thousand reeds around: and the name of the city from that day shall be, ‘Yahweh is there.’ EZE  48\v 35 “It shall be eighteen thousand reeds in circumference; and the name of the city from that day shall be, ‘Yahweh is there.’ DAN   1\v 3 The king spoke to Ashpenaz the master of his eunuchs, that he should bring in some of the children of Israel, even of the royal offspring\f + \fr 1:3  \ft or, seed\f* and of the nobles; 
DAN   1\v 3 The king spoke to Ashpenaz, the master of his eunuchs, that he should bring in some of the children of Israel, even of the royal offspring\f + \fr 1:3  \ft or, seed\f* and of the nobles: 
DAN   1\v 5 The king appointed for them a daily portion of the king’s dainties, and of the wine which he drank, and that they should be nourished three years; that at its end they should stand before the king. 
DAN   1\v 5 The king appointed for them a daily portion of the king’s delicacies and of the wine which he drank, and that they should be nourished three years, that at its end they should stand before the king. 
DAN   1\v 13 Then let our faces be examined before you, and the face of the youths who eat of the king’s dainties; and as you see, deal with your servants.” 
DAN   1\v 13 Then let our faces be examined before you, and the face of the youths who eat of the king’s delicacies; and as you see, deal with your servants.” 
DAN   1\v 15 At the end of ten days, their faces appeared fairer, and they were fatter in flesh, than all the youths who ate of the king’s dainties. 
DAN   1\v 15 At the end of ten days, their faces appeared fairer and they were fatter in flesh than all the youths who ate of the king’s delicacies. 
DAN   2\v 11 It is a rare thing that the king requires, and there is no other who can show it before the king, except the gods, whose dwelling is not with flesh.” 
DAN   2\v 11 It is a rare thing that the king requires, and there is no other who can show it before the king except the gods, whose dwelling is not with flesh.” 
DAN   2\v 33 its legs of iron, its feet part of iron, and part of clay. 
DAN   2\v 33 its legs of iron, its feet part of iron and part of clay. 
DAN   2\v 35 Then the iron, the clay, the bronze, the silver, and the gold were broken in pieces together, and became like the chaff of the summer threshing floors. The wind carried them away, so that no place was found for them. The stone that struck the image became a great mountain, and filled the whole earth. 
DAN   2\v 35 Then the iron, the clay, the bronze, the silver, and the gold were broken in pieces together, and became like the chaff of the summer threshing floors. The wind carried them away, so that no place was found for them. The stone that struck the image became a great mountain and filled the whole earth. 
DAN   2\v 41 Whereas you saw the feet and toes, part of potters’ clay, and part of iron, it will be a divided kingdom; but there will be in it of the strength of the iron, because you saw the iron mixed with miry clay. 
DAN   2\v 41 Whereas you saw the feet and toes, part of potters’ clay and part of iron, it will be a divided kingdom; but there will be in it of the strength of the iron, because you saw the iron mixed with miry clay. 
DAN   2\v 45 Because you saw that a stone was cut out of the mountain without hands, and that it broke in pieces the iron, the bronze, the clay, the silver, and the gold; the great God has made known to the king what will happen hereafter. The dream is certain, and its interpretation sure.” 
DAN   2\v 45 Because you saw that a stone was cut out of the mountain without hands, and that it broke in pieces the iron, the bronze, the clay, the silver, and the gold, the great God has made known to the king what will happen hereafter. The dream is certain, and its interpretation sure.” 
DAN   3\v 49 Daniel requested of the king, and he appointed Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego over the affairs of the province of Babylon; but Daniel was in the king’s gate. 
DAN   3\v 49 Daniel requested of the king, and he appointed Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego over the affairs of the province of Babylon, but Daniel was in the king’s gate. 
DAN   3\v 1 Nebuchadnezzar the king made an image of gold, whose height was sixty cubits,\f + \fr 3:1  \ft A cubit is the length from the tip of the middle finger to the elbow on a man’s arm, or about 18 inches or 46 centimeters.\f* and its width six cubits. He set it up in the plain of Dura, in the province of Babylon. 
DAN   3\v 1 Nebuchadnezzar the king made an image of gold, whose height was sixty cubits\f + \fr 3:1  \ft A cubit is the length from the tip of the middle finger to the elbow on a man’s arm, or about 18 inches or 46 centimeters.\f* and its width six cubits. He set it up in the plain of Dura, in the province of Babylon. 
DAN   3\v 3 Then the local governors, the deputies, and the governors, the judges, the treasurers, the counselors, the sheriffs, and all the rulers of the provinces, were gathered together to the dedication of the image that Nebuchadnezzar the king had set up; and they stood before the image that Nebuchadnezzar had set up. 
DAN   3\v 3 Then the local governors, the deputies, and the governors, the judges, the treasurers, the counselors, the sheriffs, and all the rulers of the provinces were gathered together to the dedication of the image that Nebuchadnezzar the king had set up; and they stood before the image that Nebuchadnezzar had set up. 
DAN   3\v 7 Therefore at that time, when all the peoples heard the sound of the horn, flute, zither, lyre, harp, pipe, and all kinds of music, all the peoples, the nations, and the languages, fell down and worshiped the golden image that Nebuchadnezzar the king had set up. 
DAN   3\v 7 Therefore at that time, when all the peoples heard the sound of the horn, flute, zither, lyre, harp, pipe, and all kinds of music, all the peoples, the nations, and the languages fell down and worshiped the golden image that Nebuchadnezzar the king had set up. 
DAN   3\v 27 The local governors, the deputies, and the governors, and the king’s counselors, being gathered together, saw these men, that the fire had no power on their bodies. The hair of their head wasn’t singed. Their pants weren’t changed, the smell of fire wasn’t even on them. 
DAN   3\v 27 The local governors, the deputies, and the governors, and the king’s counselors, being gathered together, saw these men, that the fire had no power on their bodies. The hair of their head wasn’t singed. Their pants weren’t changed. The smell of fire wasn’t even on them. 
DAN   3\v 29 Therefore I make a decree, that every people, nation, and language, which speak anything evil against the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, shall be cut in pieces, and their houses shall be made a dunghill; because there is no other god who is able to deliver like this.” 
DAN   3\v 29 Therefore I make a decree that every people, nation, and language which speak anything evil against the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego shall be cut in pieces, and their houses shall be made a dunghill, because there is no other god who is able to deliver like this.” 
DAN   4\v 7 Then the magicians, the enchanters, the Chaldeans, and the soothsayers came in; and I told the dream before them; but they didn’t make known to me its interpretation. 
DAN   4\v 7 Then the magicians, the enchanters, the Chaldeans, and the soothsayers came in; and I told them the dream, but they didn’t make known to me its interpretation. 
DAN   4\v 9 “Belteshazzar, master of the magicians, because I know that the spirit of the holy gods is in you, and no secret troubles you, tell me the visions of my dream that I have seen, and its interpretation. 
DAN   4\v 9 “Belteshazzar, master of the magicians, because I know that the spirit of the holy gods is in you and no secret troubles you, tell me the visions of my dream that I have seen, and its interpretation. 
DAN   4\v 11 The tree grew, and was strong, and its height reached to the sky, and its sight to the end of all the earth. 
DAN   4\v 11 The tree grew and was strong. Its height reached to the sky and its sight to the end of all the earth. 
DAN   4\v 13 “I saw in the visions of my head on my bed, and behold, a watcher and a holy one came down from the sky. 
DAN   4\v 13 “I saw in the visions of my head on my bed, and behold, a holy watcher came down from the sky. 
DAN   4\v 17 “‘The sentence is by the decree of the watchers, and the demand by the word of the holy ones; to the intent that the living may know that the Most High rules in the kingdom of men, and gives it to whomever he will, and sets up over it the lowest of men.’ 
DAN   4\v 17 “‘The sentence is by the decree of the watchers and the demand by the word of the holy ones, to the intent that the living may know that the Most High rules in the kingdom of men, and gives it to whomever he will, and sets up over it the lowest of men.’ 
DAN   4\v 19 Then Daniel, whose name was Belteshazzar, was stricken mute for a while, and his thoughts troubled him. The king answered, “Belteshazzar, don’t let the dream, or the interpretation, trouble you.” 
DAN   4\v 19 Then Daniel, whose name was Belteshazzar, was stricken mute for a while, and his thoughts troubled him. The king answered, “Belteshazzar, don’t let the dream or the interpretation, trouble you.” 
DAN   4\v 21 whose leaves were beautiful, and its fruit plentiful, and in it was food for all; under which the animals of the field lived, and on whose branches the birds of the sky had their habitation: 
DAN   4\v 21 whose leaves were beautiful and its fruit plentiful, and in it was food for all; under which the animals of the field lived, and on whose branches the birds of the sky had their habitation— 
DAN   4\v 23 “Whereas the king saw a watcher and a holy one coming down from the sky, and saying, ‘Cut down the tree, and destroy it; nevertheless leave the stump of its roots in the earth, even with a band of iron and bronze, in the tender grass of the field, and let it be wet with the dew of the sky. Let his portion be with the animals of the field, until seven times pass over him.’ 
DAN   4\v 23 “Whereas the king saw a holy watcher coming down from the sky and saying, ‘Cut down the tree, and destroy it; nevertheless leave the stump of its roots in the earth, even with a band of iron and bronze, in the tender grass of the field, and let it be wet with the dew of the sky. Let his portion be with the animals of the field, until seven times pass over him.’ 
DAN   4\v 25 that you shall be driven from men, and your dwelling shall be with the animals of the field. You shall be made to eat grass as oxen, and shall be wet with the dew of the sky, and seven times shall pass over you; until you know that the Most High rules in the kingdom of men, and gives it to whomever he will. 
DAN   4\v 25 You will be driven from men and your dwelling shall be with the animals of the field. You will be made to eat grass as oxen, and will be wet with the dew of the sky, and seven times shall pass over you, until you know that the Most High rules in the kingdom of men, and gives it to whomever he will. 
DAN   4\v 33 This was fulfilled the same hour on Nebuchadnezzar. He was driven from men, and ate grass as oxen, and his body was wet with the dew of the sky, until his hair had grown like eagles’ feathers, and his nails like birds’ claws. 
DAN   4\v 33 This was fulfilled the same hour on Nebuchadnezzar. He was driven from men and ate grass like oxen; and his body was wet with the dew of the sky until his hair had grown like eagles’ feathers, and his nails like birds’ claws. 
DAN   5\v 7 The king cried aloud to bring in the enchanters, the Chaldeans, and the soothsayers. The king spoke and said to the wise men of Babylon, “Whoever reads this writing, and shows me its interpretation, shall be clothed with purple, and have a chain of gold about his neck, and shall be the third ruler in the kingdom.” 
DAN   5\v 7 The king cried aloud to bring in the enchanters, the Chaldeans, and the soothsayers. The king spoke and said to the wise men of Babylon, “Whoever reads this writing and shows me its interpretation shall be clothed with purple, and have a chain of gold about his neck, and shall be the third ruler in the kingdom.” 
DAN   5\v 11 There is a man in your kingdom, in whom is the spirit of the holy gods; and in the days of your father light and understanding and wisdom, like the wisdom of the gods, were found in him. The king, Nebuchadnezzar, your father, yes, the king, your father, made him master of the magicians, enchanters, Chaldeans, and soothsayers, 
DAN   5\v 11 There is a man in your kingdom in whom is the spirit of the holy gods; and in the days of your father, light and understanding and wisdom, like the wisdom of the gods, were found in him. The king, Nebuchadnezzar, your father—yes, the king, your father—made him master of the magicians, enchanters, Chaldeans, and soothsayers, 
DAN   5\v 21 He was driven from the sons of men, and his heart was made like the animals’, and his dwelling was with the wild donkeys. He was fed with grass like oxen, and his body was wet with the dew of the sky; until he knew that the Most High God rules in the kingdom of men, and that he sets up over it whomever he will. 
DAN   5\v 21 He was driven from the sons of men, and his heart was made like the animals’, and his dwelling was with the wild donkeys. He was fed with grass like oxen, and his body was wet with the dew of the sky, until he knew that the Most High God rules in the kingdom of men, and that he sets up over it whomever he will. 
DAN   6\v 7 All the presidents of the kingdom, the deputies and the local governors, the counselors and the governors, have consulted together to establish a royal statute, and to make a strong decree, that whoever asks a petition of any god or man for thirty days, except of you, O king, he shall be cast into the den of lions. 
DAN   6\v 7 All the presidents of the kingdom, the deputies and the local governors, the counselors and the governors, have consulted together to establish a royal statute and to make a strong decree, that whoever asks a petition of any god or man for thirty days, except of you, O king, he shall be cast into the den of lions. 
DAN   6\v 25 Then king Darius wrote to all the peoples, nations, and languages, who dwell in all the earth: 
DAN   6\v 25 Then king Darius wrote to all the peoples, nations, and languages who dwell in all the earth: 
DAN   7\v 1 In the first year of Belshazzar king of Babylon, Daniel had a dream and visions of his head on his bed. Then he wrote the dream and told the sum of the matters. 
DAN   7\v 1 In the first year of Belshazzar king of Babylon, Daniel had a dream and visions of his head while on his bed. Then he wrote the dream and told the sum of the matters. 
DAN   7\v 7 “After this I saw in the night visions, and, behold, there was a fourth animal, awesome and powerful, and exceedingly strong. It had great iron teeth. It devoured and broke in pieces, and stamped the residue with its feet. It was different from all the animals that were before it. It had ten horns. 
DAN   7\v 7 “After this I saw in the night visions, and, behold, there was a fourth animal, awesome, powerful, and exceedingly strong. It had great iron teeth. It devoured and broke in pieces, and stamped the residue with its feet. It was different from all the animals that were before it. It had ten horns. 
DAN   7\v 11 “I watched at that time because of the voice of the great words which the horn spoke. I watched even until the animal was slain, and its body destroyed, and it was given to be burned with fire. 
DAN   7\v 11 “I watched at that time because of the voice of the arrogant words which the horn spoke. I watched even until the animal was slain, and its body destroyed, and it was given to be burned with fire. 
DAN   7\v 13 “I saw in the night visions, and behold, there came with the clouds of the sky one like a son of man, and he came even to the ancient of days, and they brought him near before him. 
DAN   7\v 13 “I saw in the night visions, and behold, there came with the clouds of the sky one like a son of man, and he came even to the Ancient of Days, and they brought him near before him. 
DAN   7\v 23 “So he said, ‘The fourth animal will be a fourth kingdom on earth, which will be different from all the kingdoms, and will devour the whole earth, and will tread it down, and break it in pieces. 
DAN   7\v 23 “So he said, ‘The fourth animal will be a fourth kingdom on earth, which will be different from all the kingdoms, and will devour the whole earth, and will tread it down and break it in pieces. 
DAN   8\v 3 Then I lifted up my eyes, and saw, and behold, a ram which had two horns stood before the river. The two horns were high; but one was higher than the other, and the higher came up last. 
DAN   8\v 3 Then I lifted up my eyes and saw, and behold, a ram which had two horns stood before the river. The two horns were high, but one was higher than the other, and the higher came up last. 
DAN   8\v 7 I saw him come close to the ram, and he was moved with anger against him, and struck the ram, and broke his two horns. There was no power in the ram to stand before him; but he cast him down to the ground, and trampled on him. There was no one who could deliver the ram out of his hand. 
DAN   8\v 7 I saw him come close to the ram, and he was moved with anger against him, and struck the ram, and broke his two horns. There was no power in the ram to stand before him; but he cast him down to the ground and trampled on him. There was no one who could deliver the ram out of his hand. 
DAN   8\v 9 Out of one of them came out a little horn, which grew exceedingly great, toward the south, and toward the east, and toward the glorious land. 
DAN   8\v 9 Out of one of them came out a little horn which grew exceedingly great—toward the south, and toward the east, and toward the glorious land. 
DAN   8\v 15 When I, even I Daniel, had seen the vision, I sought to understand it. Then behold, there stood before me something like the appearance of a man. 
DAN   8\v 15 When I, even I Daniel, had seen the vision, I sought to understand it. Then behold, there stood before me someone with the appearance of a man. 
DAN   8\v 17 So he came near where I stood; and when he came, I was frightened, and fell on my face; but he said to me, “Understand, son of man; for the vision belongs to the time of the end.” 
DAN   8\v 17 So he came near where I stood; and when he came, I was frightened, and fell on my face; but he said to me, “Understand, son of man, for the vision belongs to the time of the end.” 
DAN   8\v 19 He said, “Behold, I will make you know what will be in the latter time of the indignation; for it belongs to the appointed time of the end. 
DAN   8\v 19 He said, “Behold, I will make you know what will be in the latter time of the indignation, for it belongs to the appointed time of the end. 
DAN   8\v 23 “In the latter time of their kingdom, when the transgressors have come to the full, a king of fierce face, and understanding dark sentences, will stand up. 
DAN   8\v 23 “In the latter time of their kingdom, when the transgressors have come to the full, a king of fierce face, and understanding riddles, will stand up. 
DAN   8\v 25 Through his policy he will cause deceit to prosper in his hand. He will magnify himself in his heart, and he will destroy many in their security. He will also stand up against the prince of princes; but he will be broken without hand. 
DAN   8\v 25 Through his policy he will cause deceit to prosper in his hand. He will magnify himself in his heart, and he will destroy many in their security. He will also stand up against the prince of princes, but he will be broken without human hands. 
DAN   9\v 27 I, Daniel, fainted, and was sick for some days. Then I rose up, and did the king’s business. I wondered at the vision, but no one understood it. 
DAN   9\v 27 I, Daniel, fainted, and was sick for some days. Then I rose up and did the king’s business. I wondered at the vision, but no one understood it. 
DAN   9\v 1 In the first year of Darius the son of Ahasuerus, of the offspring of the Medes, who was made king over the realm of the Chaldeans, 
DAN   9\v 1 In the first year of Darius the son of Ahasuerus, of the offspring of the Medes, who was made king over the realm of the Chaldeans— 
DAN   9\v 7 “Lord, righteousness belongs to you, but to us confusion of face, as it is today; to the men of Judah, and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and to all Israel, who are near, and who are far off, through all the countries where you have driven them, because of their trespass that they have trespassed against you. 
DAN   9\v 7 “Lord, righteousness belongs to you, but to us confusion of face, as it is today; to the men of Judah, and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and to all Israel, who are near and who are far off, through all the countries where you have driven them, because of their trespass that they have trespassed against you. 
DAN   9\v 9 To the Lord our God belong mercies and forgiveness; for we have rebelled against him. 
DAN   9\v 9 To the Lord our God belong mercies and forgiveness, for we have rebelled against him. 
DAN   9\v 15 “Now, Lord our God, who has brought your people out of the land of Egypt with a mighty hand, and have gotten yourself renown, as it is today; we have sinned. We have done wickedly. 
DAN   9\v 15 “Now, Lord our God, who has brought your people out of the land of Egypt with a mighty hand, and have gotten yourself renown, as it is today, we have sinned. We have done wickedly. 
DAN   9\v 17 “Now therefore, our God, listen to the prayer of your servant, and to his petitions, and cause your face to shine on your sanctuary that is desolate, for the Lord’s sake. 
DAN   9\v 17 “Now therefore, our God, listen to the prayer of your servant and to his petitions, and cause your face to shine on your sanctuary that is desolate, for the Lord’s sake. 
DAN   9\v 20 While I was speaking, praying, and confessing my sin and the sin of my people Israel, and presenting my supplication before Yahweh my God for the holy mountain of my God, 
DAN   9\v 20 While I was speaking, praying, and confessing my sin and the sin of my people Israel, and presenting my supplication before Yahweh my God for the holy mountain of my God— 
DAN   9\v 24 “Seventy weeks are decreed on your people and on your holy city, to finish disobedience, and to make an end of sins, and to make reconciliation for iniquity, and to bring in everlasting righteousness, and to seal up vision and prophecy, and to anoint the most holy. 
DAN   9\v 24 “Seventy weeks are decreed on your people and on your holy city, to finish disobedience, to make an end of sins, to make reconciliation for iniquity, to bring in everlasting righteousness, to seal up vision and prophecy, and to anoint the most holy. 
DAN  10\v 1 In the third year of Cyrus king of Persia a thing was revealed to Daniel, whose name was called Belteshazzar; and the thing was true, even a great warfare. He understood the thing, and had understanding of the vision. 
DAN  10\v 1 In the third year of Cyrus king of Persia a message was revealed to Daniel, whose name was called Belteshazzar; and the message was true, even a great warfare. He understood the message, and had understanding of the vision. 
DAN  10\v 3 I ate no pleasant bread. No meat or wine came into my mouth. I didn’t anoint myself at all, until three whole weeks were fulfilled. 
DAN  10\v 3 I ate no pleasant food. No meat or wine came into my mouth. I didn’t anoint myself at all, until three whole weeks were fulfilled. 
DAN  10\v 5 I lifted up my eyes, and looked, and behold, there was a man clothed in linen, whose thighs were adorned with pure gold of Uphaz. 
DAN  10\v 5 I lifted up my eyes and looked, and behold, there was a man clothed in linen, whose waist was adorned with pure gold of Uphaz. 
DAN  10\v 7 I, Daniel, alone saw the vision; for the men who were with me didn’t see the vision; but a great quaking fell on them, and they fled to hide themselves. 
DAN  10\v 7 I, Daniel, alone saw the vision, for the men who were with me didn’t see the vision, but a great quaking fell on them, and they fled to hide themselves. 
DAN  10\v 11 He said to me, “Daniel, you greatly beloved man, understand the words that I speak to you, and stand upright; for I have been sent to you, now.” When he had spoken this word to me, I stood trembling. 
DAN  10\v 11 He said to me, “Daniel, you greatly beloved man, understand the words that I speak to you, and stand upright, for I have been sent to you, now.” When he had spoken this word to me, I stood trembling. 
DAN  10\v 15 When he had spoken these words to me, I set my face toward the ground, and was mute. 
DAN  10\v 15 When he had spoken these words to me, I set my face toward the ground and was mute. 
DAN  11\v 21 But I will tell you that which is inscribed in the writing of truth. There is no one who holds with me against these, but Michael your prince. 
DAN  11\v 21 But I will tell you that which is inscribed in the writing of truth. There is no one who holds with me against these but Michael your prince. 
DAN  11\v 7 “But out of a shoot from her roots one will stand up in his place, who will come to the army, and will enter into the fortress of the king of the north, and will deal against them, and will prevail. 
DAN  11\v 7 “But out of a shoot from her roots one will stand up in his place, who will come to the army and will enter into the fortress of the king of the north, and will deal against them and will prevail. 
DAN  11\v 11 “The king of the south will be moved with anger, and will come out and fight with him, even with the king of the north. He will send out a great multitude, and the multitude will be given into his hand. 
DAN  11\v 11 “The king of the south will be moved with anger and will come out and fight with him, even with the king of the north. He will send out a great multitude, and the multitude will be given into his hand. 
DAN  11\v 13 The king of the north will return, and will send out a multitude greater than the former. He will come on at the end of the times, even of years, with a great army and with much substance. 
DAN  11\v 13 The king of the north will return, and will send out a multitude greater than the former. He will come on at the end of the times, even of years, with a great army and with abundant supplies. 
DAN  11\v 15 So the king of the north will come and cast up a mound, and take a well-fortified city. The forces of the south won’t stand, neither will his chosen people, neither will there be any strength to stand. 
DAN  11\v 15 So the king of the north will come and cast up a mound, and take a well-fortified city. The forces of the south won’t stand, neither will his select troops, neither will there be any strength to stand. 
DAN  11\v 17 He will set his face to come with the strength of his whole kingdom, and with him equitable conditions. He will perform them. He will give him the daughter of women, to corrupt her; but she will not stand, and won’t be for him. 
DAN  11\v 17 He will set his face to come with the strength of his whole kingdom, and with him equitable conditions. He will perform them. He will give him the daughter of women, to destroy the kingdom, but she will not stand, and won’t be for him. 
DAN  11\v 23 After the treaty made with him he will work deceitfully; for he will come up, and will become strong, with a small people. 
DAN  11\v 23 After the treaty made with him he will work deceitfully; for he will come up and will become strong with few people. 
DAN  11\v 25 “He will stir up his power and his courage against the king of the south with a great army; and the king of the south will wage war in battle with an exceedingly great and mighty army; but he won’t stand; for they will devise plans against him. 
DAN  11\v 25 “He will stir up his power and his courage against the king of the south with a great army; and the king of the south will wage war in battle with an exceedingly great and mighty army, but he won’t stand; for they will devise plans against him. 
DAN  11\v 27 As for both these kings, their hearts will be to do mischief, and they will speak lies at one table; but it won’t prosper, for the end will still be at the appointed time. 
DAN  11\v 27 As for both these kings, their hearts will be to do evil, and they will speak lies at one table; but it won’t prosper, for the end will still be at the appointed time. 
DAN  11\v 29 “He will return at the appointed time, and come into the south; but it won’t be in the latter time as it was in the former. 
DAN  11\v 29 “He will return at the appointed time and come into the south; but it won’t be in the latter time as it was in the former. 
DAN  11\v 31 “Forces will stand on his part, and they will profane the sanctuary, even the fortress, and will take away the continual burnt offering. Then they will set up the abomination that makes desolate. 
DAN  11\v 31 “Forces from him will profane the sanctuary, even the fortress, and will take away the continual burnt offering. Then they will set up the abomination that makes desolate. 
DAN  11\v 35 Some of those who are wise will fall, to refine them, and to purify, and to make them white, even to the time of the end; because it is yet for the time appointed. 
DAN  11\v 35 Some of those who are wise will fall—to refine them, and to purify, and to make them white, even to the time of the end, because it is yet for the time appointed. 
DAN  11\v 43 But he will have power over the treasures of gold and of silver, and over all the precious things of Egypt. The Libyans and the Ethiopians will be at his steps. 
DAN  11\v 43 But he will have power over the treasures of gold and of silver, and over all the precious things of Egypt. The Libyans and the Ethiopians will follow his steps. 
DAN  12\v 11 “From the time that the continual burnt offering is taken away, and the abomination that makes desolate set up, there will be one thousand two hundred ninety days. 
DAN  12\v 11 “From the time that the continual burnt offering is taken away and the abomination that makes desolate set up, there will be one thousand two hundred ninety days. 
HOS   1\v 9 He said, “Call his name Lo-Ammi\f + \fr 1:9  \ft Lo-Ammi means “not my people”.\f*; for you are not my people, and I will not be yours. 
HOS   1\v 9 He said, “Call his name Lo-Ammi,\f + \fr 1:9  \ft Lo-Ammi means “not my people”.\f* for you are not my people, and I will not be yours. 
HOS   2\v 3 Lest I strip her naked, 
HOS   2\v 3 lest I strip her naked, 
HOS   2\v 21 It will happen in that day, I will respond,” says Yahweh, 
HOS   2\v 21 It will happen in that day, that I will respond,” says Yahweh. 
HOS   4\v 5 Afterward the children of Israel shall return, and seek Yahweh their God, and David their king, and shall come with trembling to Yahweh and to his blessings in the last days. 
HOS   4\v 5 Afterward the children of Israel shall return and seek Yahweh their God, and David their king, and shall come with trembling to Yahweh and to his blessings in the last days. 
HOS   4\v 1 Hear Yahweh’s word, you children of Israel; 
HOS   4\v 1 Hear Yahweh’s word, you children of Israel, 
HOS   4\v 4 “Yet let no man bring a charge, neither let any man accuse; for your people are like those who bring charges against a priest. 
HOS   4\v 4 “Yet let no man bring a charge, neither let any man accuse; 
HOS  10\v 7 Samaria and her king float away, 
HOS  10\v 7 Samaria and her king float away 
HOS  10\v 11 Ephraim is a trained heifer that loves to thresh; 
HOS  10\v 11 Ephraim is a trained heifer that loves to thresh, 
HOS  12\v 3 In the womb he took his brother by the heel; 
HOS  12\v 3 In the womb he took his brother by the heel, 
HOS  12\v 5 even Yahweh, the God of Armies; 
HOS  12\v 5 even Yahweh, the God of Armies. 
JOE   2\v 11 Yahweh thunders his voice before his army; 
JOE   2\v 11 Yahweh thunders his voice before his army, 
JOE   2\v 13 Tear your heart, and not your garments, 
JOE   2\v 13 Tear your heart and not your garments, 
JOE   3\v 4 “Yes, and what are you to me, Tyre, and Sidon, 
JOE   3\v 4 “Yes, and what are you to me, Tyre and Sidon, 
JOE   3\v 19 Egypt will be a desolation, 
JOE   3\v 19 Egypt will be a desolation 
JOE   3\v 21 I will cleanse their blood, 
JOE   3\v 21 I will cleanse their blood 
AMO   1\v 1 The words of Amos, who was among the herdsmen of Tekoa, which he saw concerning Israel in the days of Uzziah king of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam the son of Joash king of Israel, two years before the earthquake. 
AMO   1\v 1 The words of Amos, who was among the herdsmen of Tekoa, which he saw concerning Israel in the days of Uzziah king of Judah and in the days of Jeroboam the son of Joash, king of Israel, two years before the earthquake. 
AMO   2\v 7 They trample on the dust of the earth on the head of the poor, 
AMO   2\v 7 They trample the heads of the poor into the dust of the earth 
AMO   2\v 15 neither shall he stand who handles the bow; 
AMO   2\v 15 He who handles the bow won’t stand. 
AMO   3\p says Yahweh. 
AMO   2\v 1 Hear this word that Yahweh has spoken against you, children of Israel, against the whole family which I brought up out of the land of Egypt, saying: 
AMO   3\v 1 Hear this word that Yahweh has spoken against you, children of Israel, against the whole family which I brought up out of the land of Egypt, saying: 
AMO   2\v 3 Do two walk together, 
AMO   3\v 3 Do two walk together, 
AMO   2\v 5 Can a bird fall in a trap on the earth, 
AMO   3\v 5 Can a bird fall in a trap on the earth, 
AMO   2\v 7 Surely the Lord Yahweh will do nothing, 
AMO   3\v 7 Surely the Lord Yahweh will do nothing, 
AMO   2\v 9 Proclaim in the palaces at Ashdod, 
AMO   3\v 9 Proclaim in the palaces at Ashdod, 
AMO   2\v 11 Therefore the Lord Yahweh says: 
AMO   3\v 11 Therefore the Lord Yahweh says: 
AMO   2\v 13 “Listen, and testify against the house of Jacob,” says the Lord Yahweh, the God of Armies. 
AMO   3\v 13 “Listen, and testify against the house of Jacob,” says the Lord Yahweh, the God of Armies. 
AMO   4\v 15 I will strike the winter house with the summer house; 
AMO   4\v 15 I will strike the winter house with the summer house; 
AMO   4\v 1 Listen to this word, you cows of Bashan, who are on the mountain of Samaria, who oppress the poor, who crush the needy, who tell their husbands, “Bring us drinks!” 
AMO   4\v 1 Listen to this word, you cows of Bashan, who are on the mountain of Samaria, who oppress the poor, who crush the needy, who tell their husbands, “Bring us drinks!” 
AMO   4\v 3 You will go out at the breaks in the wall, 
AMO   4\v 3 You will go out at the breaks in the wall, 
AMO   4\v 5 offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving of that which is leavened, 
AMO   4\v 5 offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving of that which is leavened, 
AMO   4\v 7 “I also have withheld the rain from you, 
AMO   4\v 7 “I also have withheld the rain from you, 
AMO   4\v 9 “I struck you with blight and mildew many times in your gardens and your vineyards, 
AMO   4\v 9 “I struck you with blight and mildew many times in your gardens and your vineyards; 
AMO   4\v 11 “I have overthrown some of you, 
AMO   4\v 11 “I have overthrown some of you, 
AMO   5\v 13 For, behold, he who forms the mountains, creates the wind, declares to man what is his thought, 
AMO   5\v 13 For, behold, he who forms the mountains, 
AMO   5\v 1 Listen to this word which I take up for a lamentation over you, O house of Israel: 
AMO   5\v 1 Listen to this word which I take up for a lamentation over you, O house of Israel. 
AMO   5\v 3 For the Lord Yahweh says: 
AMO   5\v 3 For the Lord Yahweh says: 
AMO   5\v 5 but don’t seek Bethel, 
AMO   5\v 5 but don’t seek Bethel, 
AMO   5\v 7 You who turn justice to wormwood, 
AMO   5\v 7 You who turn justice to wormwood, 
AMO   5\v 9 who brings sudden destruction on the strong, 
AMO   5\v 9 who brings sudden destruction on the strong, 
AMO   5\v 11 Therefore, because you trample on the poor and take taxes from him of wheat, 
AMO   5\v 11 Therefore, because you trample on the poor, 
AMO   5\v 13 Therefore a prudent person keeps silent in such a time, 
AMO   5\v 13 Therefore a prudent person keeps silent in such a time, 
AMO   5\v 15 Hate evil, love good, 
AMO   5\v 15 Hate evil, love good, 
AMO   5\v 17 In all vineyards there will be wailing, 
AMO   5\v 17 In all vineyards there will be wailing; 
AMO   5\v 19 As if a man fled from a lion, 
AMO   5\v 19 As if a man fled from a lion, 
AMO   5\v 21 I hate, I despise your feasts, 
AMO   5\v 21 I hate, I despise your feasts, 
AMO   5\v 23 Take away from me the noise of your songs! 
AMO   5\v 23 Take away from me the noise of your songs! 
AMO   5\v 25 “Did you bring to me sacrifices and offerings in the wilderness forty years, house of Israel? 
AMO   5\v 25 “Did you bring to me sacrifices and offerings in the wilderness forty years, house of Israel? 
AMO   6\v 27 Therefore I will cause you to go into captivity beyond Damascus,” says Yahweh, whose name is the God of Armies. 
AMO   6\v 27 Therefore I will cause you to go into captivity beyond Damascus,” says Yahweh, whose name is the God of Armies. 
AMO   6\v 1 Woe to those who are at ease in Zion, 
AMO   6\v 1 Woe to those who are at ease in Zion, 
AMO   6\v 3 Alas for you who put far away the evil day, 
AMO   6\v 3 Those who put far away the evil day, 
AMO   6\v 5 who strum on the strings of a harp, 
AMO   6\v 5 who strum on the strings of a harp; 
AMO   6\v 7 Therefore they will now go captive with the first who go captive. 
AMO   6\v 7 Therefore they will now go captive with the first who go captive; 
AMO   6\v 9 It will happen that if ten men remain in one house, 
AMO   6\v 9 It will happen, if there remain ten men in one house, 
AMO   6\v 11 “For, behold, Yahweh commands, and the great house will be smashed to pieces, 
AMO   6\v 11 “For, behold, Yahweh commands, and the great house will be smashed to pieces, 
AMO   6\v 13 you who rejoice in a thing of nothing, who say, 
AMO   6\v 13 you who rejoice in a thing of nothing, who say, 
AMO   6\v 1 Thus the Lord Yahweh showed me: behold, he formed locusts in the beginning of the shooting up of the latter growth; and behold, it was the latter growth after the king’s harvest. 
AMO   6\v 1 Thus the Lord Yahweh showed me: and behold, he formed locusts in the beginning of the shooting up of the latter growth; and behold, it was the latter growth after the king’s harvest. 
AMO   6\v 3 Yahweh relented concerning this. “It shall not be,” says Yahweh. 
AMO   6\v 3 Yahweh relented concerning this. “It shall not be,” says Yahweh. 
AMO   6\v 5 Then I said, “Lord Yahweh, stop, I beg you! How could Jacob stand? For he is small.” 
AMO   6\v 5 Then I said, “Lord Yahweh, stop, I beg you! How could Jacob stand? For he is small.” 
AMO   6\v 7 Thus he showed me: behold, the Lord stood beside a wall made by a plumb line, with a plumb line in his hand. 
AMO   6\v 7 Thus he showed me and behold, the Lord stood beside a wall made by a plumb line, with a plumb line in his hand. 
AMO   6\v 9 The high places of Isaac will be desolate, the sanctuaries of Israel will be laid waste; and I will rise against the house of Jeroboam with the sword.” 
AMO   6\v 9 The high places of Isaac will be desolate, the sanctuaries of Israel will be laid waste; and I will rise against the house of Jeroboam with the sword.” 
AMO   6\v 11 For Amos says, ‘Jeroboam will die by the sword, and Israel shall surely be led away captive out of his land.’” 
AMO   6\v 11 For Amos says, ‘Jeroboam will die by the sword, and Israel shall surely be led away captive out of his land.’” 
AMO   6\v 13 but don’t prophesy again any more at Bethel; for it is the king’s sanctuary, and it is a royal house!” 
AMO   6\v 13 but don’t prophesy again any more at Bethel; for it is the king’s sanctuary, and it is a royal house!” 
AMO   6\v 15 and Yahweh took me from following the flock, and Yahweh said to me, ‘Go, prophesy to my people Israel.’ 
AMO   6\v 15 and Yahweh took me from following the flock, and Yahweh said to me, ‘Go, prophesy to my people Israel.’ 
AMO   8\v 17 Therefore Yahweh says: ‘Your wife shall be a prostitute in the city, and your sons and your daughters shall fall by the sword, and your land shall be divided by line; and you yourself shall die in a land that is unclean, and Israel shall surely be led away captive out of his land.’” 
AMO   8\v 17 Therefore Yahweh says: ‘Your wife shall be a prostitute in the city, and your sons and your daughters shall fall by the sword, and your land shall be divided by line; and you yourself shall die in a land that is unclean, and Israel shall surely be led away captive out of his land.’” 
AMO   8\v 1 Thus the Lord Yahweh showed me: behold, a basket of summer fruit. 
AMO   8\v 1 Thus the Lord Yahweh showed me: behold, a basket of summer fruit. 
AMO   8\v 3 The songs of the temple will be wailing in that day,” says the Lord Yahweh. 
AMO   8\v 3 The songs of the temple will be wailing in that day,” says the Lord Yahweh. 
AMO   8\v 5 saying, ‘When will the new moon be gone, that we may sell grain? 
AMO   8\v 5 Saying, ‘When will the new moon be gone, that we may sell grain? 
AMO   8\v 7 Yahweh has sworn by the pride of Jacob, 
AMO   8\v 7 Yahweh has sworn by the pride of Jacob, 
AMO   8\v 9 It will happen in that day,” says the Lord Yahweh, 
AMO   8\v 9 It will happen in that day,” says the Lord Yahweh, 
AMO   8\v 11 Behold, the days come,” says the Lord Yahweh, 
AMO   8\v 11 Behold, the days come,” says the Lord Yahweh, 
AMO   8\v 13 In that day the beautiful virgins 
AMO   8\v 13 In that day the beautiful virgins 
AMO   8\v 1 I saw the Lord standing beside the altar, and he said, “Strike the tops of the pillars, that the thresholds may shake. Break them in pieces on the head of all of them. I will kill the last of them with the sword. Not one of them will flee away. Not one of them will escape. 
AMO   8\v 1 I saw the Lord standing beside the altar, and he said, “Strike the tops of the pillars, that the thresholds may shake; and break them in pieces on the head of all of them; and I will kill the last of them with the sword: there shall not one of them flee away, and there shall not one of them escape. 
AMO   8\v 3 Though they hide themselves in the top of Carmel, I will search and take them out from there; and though they be hidden from my sight in the bottom of the sea, there I will command the serpent, and it will bite them. 
AMO   8\v 3 Though they hide themselves in the top of Carmel, I will search and take them out from there; and though they be hidden from my sight in the bottom of the sea, there I will command the serpent, and it will bite them. 
AMO   8\v 5 For the Lord, Yahweh of Armies, is he who touches the land and it melts, and all who dwell in it will mourn; and it will rise up wholly like the River, and will sink again, like the River of Egypt. 
AMO   8\v 5 For the Lord, Yahweh of Armies, is he who touches the land and it melts, and all who dwell in it will mourn; and it will rise up wholly like the River, and will sink again, like the River of Egypt. 
AMO   8\v 7 Are you not like the children of the Ethiopians to me, children of Israel?” says Yahweh. “Haven’t I brought up Israel out of the land of Egypt, and the Philistines from Caphtor, and the Syrians from Kir? 
AMO   8\v 7 Are you not like the children of the Ethiopians to me, children of Israel?” says Yahweh. “Haven’t I brought up Israel out of the land of Egypt, and the Philistines from Caphtor, and the Syrians from Kir? 
AMO   8\v 9 “For behold, I will command, and I will sift the house of Israel among all the nations as grain is sifted in a sieve, yet not the least kernel will fall on the earth. 
AMO   8\v 9 “For, behold, I will command, and I will sift the house of Israel among all the nations, as grain is sifted in a sieve, yet not the least kernel will fall on the earth. 
AMO   8\v 11 In that day I will raise up the tent of David who is fallen and close up its breaches, and I will raise up its ruins, and I will build it as in the days of old, 
AMO   8\v 11 In that day I will raise up the tent of David who is fallen, and close up its breaches, and I will raise up its ruins, and I will build it as in the days of old; 
AMO   8\v 13 “Behold, the days come,” says Yahweh, 
AMO   8\v 13 “Behold, the days come,” says Yahweh, 
AMO   8\v 15 I will plant them on their land, 
OBA   1\v 11 In the day that you stood on the other side, in the day that strangers carried away his substance, and foreigners entered into his gates, and cast lots for Jerusalem, even you were like one of them. 
OBA   1\v 11 In the day that you stood on the other side, in the day that strangers carried away his substance and foreigners entered into his gates and cast lots for Jerusalem, even you were like one of them. 
JON   1\v 5 Then the mariners were afraid, and every man cried to his god. They threw the cargo that was in the ship into the sea to lighten the ship. But Jonah had gone down into the innermost parts of the ship, and he was laying down, and was fast asleep. 
JON   1\v 5 Then the mariners were afraid, and every man cried to his god. They threw the cargo that was in the ship into the sea to lighten the ship. But Jonah had gone down into the innermost parts of the ship and he was laying down, and was fast asleep. 
JON   1\v 15 So they took up Jonah, and threw him into the sea; and the sea ceased its raging. 
JON   1\v 15 So they took up Jonah and threw him into the sea; and the sea ceased its raging. 
JON   3\v 5 The people of Nineveh believed God; and they proclaimed a fast, and put on sackcloth, from their greatest even to their least. 
JON   3\v 5 The people of Nineveh believed God; and they proclaimed a fast and put on sackcloth, from their greatest even to their least. 
JON   4\v 3 Therefore now, Yahweh, take, I beg you, my life from me; for it is better for me to die than to live.” 
JON   4\v 3 Therefore now, Yahweh, take, I beg you, my life from me, for it is better for me to die than to live.” 
JON   4\v 5 Then Jonah went out of the city, and sat on the east side of the city, and there made himself a booth, and sat under it in the shade, until he might see what would become of the city. 
JON   4\v 5 Then Jonah went out of the city and sat on the east side of the city, and there made himself a booth and sat under it in the shade, until he might see what would become of the city. 
JON   4\v 7 But God prepared a worm at dawn the next day, and it chewed on the vine, so that it withered. 
JON   4\v 7 But God prepared a worm at dawn the next day, and it chewed on the vine so that it withered. 
JON   4\v 11 Shouldn’t I be concerned for Nineveh, that great city, in which are more than one hundred twenty thousand persons who can’t discern between their right hand and their left hand; and also much livestock?” JON   4\v 11 Shouldn’t I be concerned for Nineveh, that great city, in which are more than one hundred twenty thousand persons who can’t discern between their right hand and their left hand, and also many animals?” MIC   1\v 1 Yahweh’s\f + \fr 1:1  \ft “Yahweh” is God’s proper Name, sometimes rendered “LORD” (all caps) in other translations.\f* word that came to Micah the Morashtite in the days of Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah, which he saw concerning Samaria and Jerusalem. 
MIC   1\v 1 Yahweh’s\f + \fr 1:1  \ft “Yahweh” is God’s proper Name, sometimes rendered “LORD” (all caps) in other translations.\f* word that came to Micah of Morasheth in the days of Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah, which he saw concerning Samaria and Jerusalem. 
MIC   1\v 3 For, behold,\f + \fr 1:3  \ft “Behold”, from “הִנֵּה”, means look at, take notice, observe, see, or gaze at. It is often used as an interjection.\f* Yahweh comes out of his place, 
MIC   1\v 3 For behold,\f + \fr 1:3  \ft “Behold”, from “הִנֵּה”, means look at, take notice, observe, see, or gaze at. It is often used as an interjection.\f* Yahweh comes out of his place, 
MIC   1\v 8 For this I will lament and wail; 
MIC   1\v 8 For this I will lament and wail. 
MIC   2\v 7 Shall it be said, O house of Jacob: 
MIC   2\v 7 Shall it be said, O house of Jacob, 
MIC   2\v 11 If a man walking in a spirit of falsehood lies: 
MIC   2\v 11 If a man walking in a spirit of falsehood lies, saying, 
MIC   3\v 5 Yahweh says concerning the prophets who lead my people astray; for those who feed their teeth, they proclaim, “Peace!” and whoever doesn’t provide for their mouths, they prepare war against him: 
MIC   3\v 5 Yahweh says concerning the prophets who lead my people astray—for those who feed their teeth, they proclaim, “Peace!” and whoever doesn’t provide for their mouths, they prepare war against him: 
MIC   4\v 5 Indeed all the nations may walk in the name of their gods; 
MIC   4\v 5 Indeed all the nations may walk in the name of their gods, 
MIC   4\v 13 Arise and thresh, daughter of Zion; 
MIC   4\v 13 Arise and thresh, daughter of Zion, 
MIC   5\v 5 He will be our peace when Assyria invades our land, 
MIC   5\v 5 He will be our peace when Assyria invades our land 
MIC   5\v 7 The remnant of Jacob will be among many peoples, 
MIC   5\v 7 The remnant of Jacob will be among many peoples 
MIC   5\v 11 I will cut off the cities of your land, 
MIC   5\v 11 I will cut off the cities of your land 
MIC   5\v 13 I will cut off your engraved images and your pillars out from among you; 
MIC   5\v 13 I will cut off your engraved images and your pillars from among you; 
MIC   6\v 15 I will execute vengeance in anger, 
MIC   6\v 15 I will execute vengeance in anger 
MIC   6\v 9 Yahweh’s voice calls to the city, 
MIC   6\v 9 Yahweh’s voice calls to the city— 
MIC   6\v 11 Shall I be pure with dishonest scales, 
MIC   6\v 11 Shall I tolerate dishonest scales, 
NAH   2\v 9 Take the plunder of silver. Take the plunder of gold, for there is no end of the store, the glory of all goodly furniture. 
NAH   2\v 9 Take the plunder of silver. Take the plunder of gold, for there is no end of treasure, an abundance of every precious thing. 
NAH   2\v 11 Where is the den of the lions, and the feeding place of the young lions, where the lion and the lioness walked, the lion’s cubs, and no one made them afraid? 
NAH   2\v 11 Where is the den of the lions, and the feeding place of the young lions, where the lion and the lioness walked with the lion’s cubs, and no one made them afraid? 
NAH   3\v 1 Woe to the bloody city! It is all full of lies and robbery. The prey doesn’t depart. 
NAH   3\v 1 Woe to the bloody city! It is all full of lies and robbery—no end to the prey. 
NAH   3\v 3 the horseman mounting, and the flashing sword, the glittering spear, and a multitude of slain, and a great heap of corpses, and there is no end of the bodies. They stumble on their bodies, 
NAH   3\v 3 the horseman charging, and the flashing sword, the glittering spear, and a multitude of slain, and a great heap of corpses, and there is no end of the bodies. They stumble on their bodies 
NAH   3\v 19 There is no healing your wound, for your injury is fatal. All who hear the report of you clap their hands over you; for who hasn’t felt your endless cruelty? NAH   3\v 19 There is no healing your wound, for your injury is fatal. All who hear the report of you clap their hands over you, for who hasn’t felt your endless cruelty? HAB   1\v 5 “Look among the nations, watch, and wonder marvelously; for I am working a work in your days, which you will not believe though it is told you. 
HAB   1\v 5 “Look among the nations, watch, and wonder marvelously; for I am working a work in your days which you will not believe though it is told you. 
HAB   1\v 9 All of them come for violence. Their hordes face the desert. He gathers prisoners like sand. 
HAB   1\v 9 All of them come for violence. Their hordes face forward. They gather prisoners like sand. 
HAB   1\v 11 Then he sweeps by like the wind, and goes on. He is indeed guilty, whose strength is his god.” 
HAB   1\v 11 Then they sweep by like the wind and go on. They are indeed guilty, whose strength is their god.” 
HAB   1\v 13 You who have purer eyes than to see evil, and who cannot look on perversity, why do you tolerate those who deal treacherously, and keep silent when the wicked swallows up the man who is more righteous than he, 
HAB   1\v 13 You who have purer eyes than to see evil, and who cannot look on perversity, why do you tolerate those who deal treacherously and keep silent when the wicked swallows up the man who is more righteous than he, 
HAB   1\v 15 He takes up all of them with the hook. He catches them in his net, and gathers them in his dragnet. Therefore he rejoices and is glad. 
HAB   1\v 15 He takes up all of them with the hook. He catches them in his net and gathers them in his dragnet. Therefore he rejoices and is glad. 
HAB   2\v 1 I will stand at my watch, and set myself on the ramparts, and will look out to see what he will say to me, and what I will answer concerning my complaint. 
HAB   2\v 1 I will stand at my watch and set myself on the ramparts, and will look out to see what he will say to me, and what I will answer concerning my complaint. 
HAB   2\v 3 For the vision is yet for the appointed time, and it hurries toward the end, and won’t prove false. Though it takes time, wait for it; because it will surely come. It won’t delay. 
HAB   2\v 3 For the vision is yet for the appointed time, and it hurries toward the end, and won’t prove false. Though it takes time, wait for it, because it will surely come. It won’t delay. 
HAB   2\v 5 Yes, moreover, wine is treacherous: an arrogant man who doesn’t stay at home, who enlarges his desire as Sheol;\f + \fr 2:5  \ft Sheol is the place of the dead. \f* he is like death, and can’t be satisfied, but gathers to himself all nations, and heaps to himself all peoples. 
HAB   2\v 5 Yes, moreover, wine is treacherous: an arrogant man who doesn’t stay at home, who enlarges his desire as Sheol;\f + \fr 2:5  \ft Sheol is the place of the dead. \f* he is like death and can’t be satisfied, but gathers to himself all nations and heaps to himself all peoples. 
HAB   2\v 13 Behold, isn’t it of Yahweh of Armies that the peoples labor for the fire, and the nations weary themselves for vanity? 
HAB   2\v 13 Behold, isn’t it from Yahweh of Armies that the peoples labor for the fire, and the nations weary themselves for vanity? 
HAB   2\v 17 For the violence done to Lebanon will overwhelm you, and the destruction of the animals, which made them afraid, because of men’s blood, and for the violence done to the land, to every city and to those who dwell in them. 
HAB   2\v 17 For the violence done to Lebanon will overwhelm you, and the destruction of the animals will terrify you, because of men’s blood and for the violence done to the land, to every city and to those who dwell in them. 
ZEP   1\v 17 I will bring distress on men, that they will walk like blind men, because they have sinned against Yahweh, and their blood will be poured out like dust, and their flesh like dung. 
ZEP   1\v 17 I will bring such distress on men that they will walk like blind men because they have sinned against Yahweh Their blood will be poured out like dust and their flesh like dung. 
ZEP   2\v 5 Woe to the inhabitants of the sea coast, the nation of the Cherethites! Yahweh’s word is against you, Canaan, the land of the Philistines. I will destroy you, that there will be no inhabitant. 
ZEP   2\v 5 Woe to the inhabitants of the sea coast, the nation of the Cherethites! Yahweh’s word is against you, Canaan, the land of the Philistines. I will destroy you until there is no inhabitant. 
ZEP   2\v 7 The coast will be for the remnant of the house of Judah. They will find pasture. In the houses of Ashkelon, they will lie down in the evening, for Yahweh, their God,\f + \fr 2:7  \ft The Hebrew word rendered “God” is “אֱלֹהִ֑ים” (Elohim).\f* will visit them, and restore them. 
ZEP   2\v 7 The coast will be for the remnant of the house of Judah. They will find pasture. In the houses of Ashkelon, they will lie down in the evening, for Yahweh, their God,\f + \fr 2:7  \ft The Hebrew word rendered “God” is “אֱלֹהִ֑ים” (Elohim).\f* will visit them and restore them. 
ZEP   2\v 9 Therefore as I live, says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, surely Moab will be as Sodom, and the children of Ammon as Gomorrah, a possession of nettles, and salt pits, and a perpetual desolation. The remnant of my people will plunder them, and the survivors of my nation will inherit them. 
ZEP   2\v 9 Therefore, as I live, says Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, surely Moab will be as Sodom, and the children of Ammon as Gomorrah, a possession of nettles and salt pits, and a perpetual desolation. The remnant of my people will plunder them, and the survivors of my nation will inherit them. 
ZEP   3\v 15 This is the joyous city that lived carelessly, that said in her heart, “I am, and there is no one besides me.” How she has become a desolation, a place for animals to lie down in! Everyone who passes by her will hiss, and shake their fists. 
ZEP   3\v 15 This is the joyous city that lived carelessly, that said in her heart, “I am, and there is no one besides me.” How she has become a desolation, a place for animals to lie down in! Everyone who passes by her will hiss and shake their fists. 
ZEP   3\v 7 I said, “Just fear me. Receive correction, so that her dwelling won’t be cut off, according to all that I have appointed concerning her.” But they rose early and corrupted all their doings. 
ZEP   3\v 7 I said, “Just fear me. Receive correction,” so that her dwelling won’t be cut off, according to all that I have appointed concerning her. But they rose early and corrupted all their doings. 
ZEP   3\v 11 In that day you will not be disappointed for all your doings, in which you have transgressed against me; for then I will take away out from among you your proudly exulting ones, and you will no more be arrogant in my holy mountain. 
ZEP   3\v 11 In that day you will not be disappointed for all your doings in which you have transgressed against me; for then I will take away out from among you your proudly exulting ones, and you will no more be arrogant in my holy mountain. 
ZEP   3\v 13 The remnant of Israel will not do iniquity, nor speak lies, neither will a deceitful tongue be found in their mouth, for they will feed and lie down, and no one will make them afraid.” 
ZEP   3\v 13 The remnant of Israel will not do iniquity nor speak lies, neither will a deceitful tongue be found in their mouth, for they will feed and lie down, and no one will make them afraid.” 
ZEP   3\v 19 Behold,\f + \fr 3:19  \ft “Behold”, from “הִנֵּה”, means look at, take notice, observe, see, or gaze at. It is often used as an interjection.\f* at that time I will deal with all those who afflict you, and I will save those who are lame, and gather those who were driven away. I will give them praise and honor, whose shame has been in all the earth. 
ZEP   3\v 19 Behold,\f + \fr 3:19  \ft “Behold”, from “הִנֵּה”, means look at, take notice, observe, see, or gaze at. It is often used as an interjection.\f* at that time I will deal with all those who afflict you; and I will save those who are lame and gather those who were driven away. I will give them praise and honor, whose shame has been in all the earth. 
ZEP   3\v 20 At that time I will bring you in, and at that time I will gather you; for I will give you honor and praise among all the peoples of the earth, when I restore your fortunes before your eyes, says Yahweh. ZEP   3\v 20 At that time I will bring you in, and at that time I will gather you; for I will give you honor and praise among all the peoples of the earth when I restore your fortunes before your eyes, says Yahweh. HAG   1\v 1 In the second year of Darius the king, in the sixth month, in the first day of the month, Yahweh’s\f + \fr 1:1  \ft “Yahweh” is God’s proper Name, sometimes rendered “LORD” (all caps) in other translations.\f* word came by Haggai, the prophet, to Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua, the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, saying, 
HAG   1\v 1 In the second year of Darius the king, in the sixth month, in the first day of the month, Yahweh’s\f + \fr 1:1  \ft “Yahweh” is God’s proper Name, sometimes rendered “LORD” (all caps) in other translations.\f* word came by Haggai the prophet, to Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, saying, 
HAG   1\v 3 Then Yahweh’s word came by Haggai, the prophet, saying, 
HAG   1\v 3 Then Yahweh’s word came by Haggai the prophet, saying, 
HAG   1\v 5 Now therefore this is what Yahweh of Armies says: Consider your ways. 
HAG   1\v 5 Now therefore this is what Yahweh of Armies says: ‘Consider your ways. 
HAG   1\v 7 This is what Yahweh of Armies says: “Consider your ways. 
HAG   1\v 7 “This is what Yahweh of Armies says: ‘Consider your ways. 
HAG   2\v 7 and I will shake all nations. The precious things of all nations will come, and I will fill this house with glory, says Yahweh of Armies. 
HAG   2\v 7 and I will shake all nations. The treasure of all nations will come, and I will fill this house with glory, says Yahweh of Armies. 
HAG   2\v 23 In that day, says Yahweh of Armies, I will take you, Zerubbabel, my servant, the son of Shealtiel,’ says Yahweh, ‘and will make you as a signet, for I have chosen you,’ says Yahweh of Armies.” HAG   2\v 23 In that day, says Yahweh of Armies, I will take you, Zerubbabel my servant, the son of Shealtiel,’ says Yahweh, ‘and will make you like a signet ring, for I have chosen you,’ says Yahweh of Armies.” ZEC   1\v 1 In the eighth month, in the second year of Darius, Yahweh’s\f + \fr 1:1  \ft “Yahweh” is God’s proper Name, sometimes rendered “LORD” (all caps) in other translations.\f* word came to Zechariah the son of Berechiah, the son of Iddo, the prophet, saying, 
ZEC   1\v 1 In the eighth month, in the second year of Darius, Yahweh’s\f + \fr 1:1  \ft “Yahweh” is God’s proper Name, sometimes rendered “LORD” (all caps) in other translations.\f* word came to the prophet Zechariah the son of Berechiah, the son of Iddo, saying, 
ZEC   1\v 3 Therefore tell them: Yahweh of Armies says: ‘Return to me,’ says Yahweh of Armies, ‘and I will return to you,’ says Yahweh of Armies. 
ZEC   1\v 3 Therefore tell them, Yahweh of Armies says: ‘Return to me,’ says Yahweh of Armies, ‘and I will return to you,’ says Yahweh of Armies. 
ZEC   1\v 7 On the twenty-fourth day of the eleventh month, which is the month Shebat, in the second year of Darius, Yahweh’s word came to Zechariah the son of Berechiah, the son of Iddo, the prophet, saying, 
ZEC   1\v 7 On the twenty-fourth day of the eleventh month, which is the month Shebat, in the second year of Darius, Yahweh’s word came to the prophet Zechariah the son of Berechiah, the son of Iddo, saying, 
ZEC   3\v 9 For, behold, the stone that I have set before Joshua; on one stone are seven eyes: behold, I will engrave its engraving,’ says Yahweh of Armies, ‘and I will remove the iniquity of that land in one day. 
ZEC   3\v 9 For, behold, the stone that I have set before Joshua: on one stone are seven eyes; behold, I will engrave its inscription,’ says Yahweh of Armies, ‘and I will remove the iniquity of that land in one day. 
ZEC   4\v 1 The angel who talked with me came again, and wakened me, as a man who is wakened out of his sleep. 
ZEC   4\v 1 The angel who talked with me came again and wakened me, as a man who is wakened out of his sleep. 
ZEC   5\v 1 Then again I lifted up my eyes, and saw, and behold, a flying scroll. 
ZEC   5\v 1 Then again I lifted up my eyes and saw, and behold, a flying scroll. 
ZEC   5\v 3 Then he said to me, “This is the curse that goes out over the surface of the whole land; for everyone who steals shall be cut off according to it on the one side; and everyone who swears falsely shall be cut off according to it on the other side. 
ZEC   5\v 3 Then he said to me, “This is the curse that goes out over the surface of the whole land, for everyone who steals shall be cut off according to it on the one side; and everyone who swears falsely shall be cut off according to it on the other side. 
ZEC   5\v 5 Then the angel who talked with me came forward, and said to me, “Lift up now your eyes, and see what this is that is appearing.” 
ZEC   5\v 5 Then the angel who talked with me came forward and said to me, “Lift up now your eyes and see what this is that is appearing.” 
ZEC   5\v 7 (and behold, a talent\f + \fr 5:7  \ft A talent is about 30 kilograms or 66 pounds.\f* of lead was lifted up); and this is a woman sitting in the middle of the ephah\f + \fr 5:7  \ft 1 ephah is about 22 liters or about 2/3 of a bushel\f* basket.” 
ZEC   5\v 7 and behold, a lead cover weighing one talent\f + \fr 5:7  \ft A talent is about 30 kilograms or 66 pounds.\f* was lifted up—and there was a woman sitting in the middle of the ephah\f + \fr 5:7  \ft 1 ephah is about 22 liters or about 2/3 of a bushel\f* basket.” 
ZEC   5\v 9 Then I lifted up my eyes and saw, and behold, there were two women, and the wind was in their wings. Now they had wings like the wings of a stork, and they lifted up the ephah basket between earth and the sky. 
ZEC   5\v 9 Then I lifted up my eyes and saw, and behold, there were two women; and the wind was in their wings. Now they had wings like the wings of a stork, and they lifted up the ephah basket between earth and the sky. 
ZEC   6\v 3 in the third chariot white horses; and in the fourth chariot dappled horses, all of them powerful. 
ZEC   6\v 3 In the third chariot were white horses. In the fourth chariot were dappled horses, all of them powerful. 
ZEC   6\v 7 The strong went out, and sought to go that they might walk back and forth through the earth: and he said, “Go around and through the earth!” So they walked back and forth through the earth. 
ZEC   6\v 7 The strong went out, and sought to go that they might walk back and forth through the earth. He said, “Go around and through the earth!” So they walked back and forth through the earth. 
ZEC   6\v 13 even he shall build Yahweh’s temple; and he shall bear the glory, and shall sit and rule on his throne; and he shall be a priest on his throne; and the counsel of peace shall be between them both. 
ZEC   6\v 13 He will build Yahweh’s temple. He will bear the glory, and will sit and rule on his throne. He will be a priest on his throne. The counsel of peace will be between them both. 
ZEC   7\v 3 and to speak to the priests of the house of Yahweh of Armies, and to the prophets, saying, “Should I weep in the fifth month, separating myself, as I have done these so many years?” 
ZEC   7\v 3 and to speak to the priests of the house of Yahweh of Armies and to the prophets, saying, “Should I weep in the fifth month, separating myself, as I have done these so many years?” 
ZEC   7\v 5 “Speak to all the people of the land, and to the priests, saying, ‘When you fasted and mourned in the fifth and in the seventh month for these seventy years, did you at all fast to me, really to me? 
ZEC   7\v 5 “Speak to all the people of the land and to the priests, saying, ‘When you fasted and mourned in the fifth and in the seventh month for these seventy years, did you at all fast to me, really to me? 
ZEC   7\v 7 Aren’t these the words which Yahweh proclaimed by the former prophets, when Jerusalem was inhabited and in prosperity, and its cities around her, and the South and the lowland were inhabited?’” 
ZEC   7\v 7 Aren’t these the words which Yahweh proclaimed by the former prophets when Jerusalem was inhabited and in prosperity, and its cities around her, and the South and the lowland were inhabited?’” 
ZEC   7\v 13 It has come to pass that, as he called, and they refused to listen, so they will call, and I will not listen,” said Yahweh of Armies; 
ZEC   7\v 13 It has come to pass that, as he called and they refused to listen, so they will call and I will not listen,” said Yahweh of Armies; 
ZEC   8\v 7 Yahweh of Armies says: “Behold, I will save my people from the east country, and from the west country; 
ZEC   8\v 7 Yahweh of Armies says: “Behold, I will save my people from the east country and from the west country. 
ZEC   8\v 17 and let none of you devise evil in your hearts against his neighbor, and love no false oath: for all these are things that I hate,” says Yahweh. 
ZEC   8\v 17 and let none of you devise evil in your hearts against his neighbor, and love no false oath; for all these are things that I hate,” says Yahweh. 
ZEC   8\v 19 Yahweh of Armies says: “The fasts of the fourth, fifth, seventh, and tenth months shall be for the house of Judah joy and gladness, and cheerful feasts. Therefore love truth and peace.” 
ZEC   8\v 19 Yahweh of Armies says: “The fasts of the fourth, fifth, seventh, and tenth months shall be for the house of Judah joy, gladness, and cheerful feasts. Therefore love truth and peace.” 
ZEC   8\v 21 and the inhabitants of one shall go to another, saying, ‘Let’s go speedily to entreat the favor of Yahweh, and to seek Yahweh of Armies. I will go also.’ 
ZEC   8\v 21 The inhabitants of one will go to another, saying, ‘Let’s go speedily to entreat the favor of Yahweh, and to seek Yahweh of Armies. I will go also.’ 
ZEC   9\v 23 Yahweh of Armies says: “In those days, ten men will take hold, out of all the languages of the nations, they will take hold of the skirt of him who is a Jew, saying, ‘We will go with you, for we have heard that God is with you.’” 
ZEC   9\v 23 Yahweh of Armies says: “In those days, ten men out of all the languages of the nations will take hold of the skirt of him who is a Jew, saying, ‘We will go with you, for we have heard that God is with you.’” 
ZEC   9\v 15 Yahweh of Armies will defend them; 
ZEC   9\v 14 Yahweh will be seen over them. 
ZEC  10\v 17 For how great is his goodness, 
ZEC   9\v 16 Yahweh their God will save them in that day as the flock of his people; 
ZEC  10\v 5 They shall be as mighty men, 
ZEC   9\v 5 They will be as mighty men, 
ZEC  10\v 7 Ephraim will be like a mighty man, 
ZEC   9\v 6 “I will strengthen the house of Judah, 
ZEC  10\v 9 I will sow them among the peoples; 
ZEC   9\v 8 I will signal for them and gather them, 
ZEC  10\v 11 He will pass through the sea of affliction, 
ZEC   9\v 10 I will bring them again also out of the land of Egypt, 
ZEC  11\q2 and they will walk up and down in his name,” says Yahweh. 
ZEC  11\v 12 I will strengthen them in Yahweh. 
ZEC  11\v 5 Their buyers slaughter them, and go unpunished. Those who sell them say, ‘Blessed be Yahweh, for I am rich;’ and their own shepherds don’t pity them. 
ZEC  11\v 5 Their buyers slaughter them and go unpunished. Those who sell them say, ‘Blessed be Yahweh, for I am rich;’ and their own shepherds don’t pity them. 
ZEC  11\v 7 So I fed the flock of slaughter, especially the oppressed of the flock. I took for myself two staffs. The one I called “Favor”, and the other I called “Union”, and I fed the flock. 
ZEC  11\v 7 So I fed the flock to be slaughtered, especially the oppressed of the flock. I took for myself two staffs. The one I called “Favor” and the other I called “Union”, and I fed the flock. 
ZEC  11\v 13 Yahweh said to me, “Throw it to the potter, the handsome price that I was valued at by them!” I took the thirty pieces of silver, and threw them to the potter, in Yahweh’s house. 
ZEC  11\v 13 Yahweh said to me, “Throw it to the potter—the handsome price that I was valued at by them!” I took the thirty pieces of silver and threw them to the potter in Yahweh’s house. 
ZEC  12\v 17 Woe to the worthless shepherd who leaves the flock! The sword will be on his arm, and on his right eye. His arm will be completely withered, and his right eye will be totally blinded!” 
ZEC  12\v 17 Woe to the worthless shepherd who leaves the flock! The sword will strike his arm and his right eye. His arm will be completely withered, and his right eye will be totally blinded!” 
ZEC  12\v 1 A revelation: Yahweh’s word concerning Israel. Yahweh, who stretches out the heavens, and lays the foundation of the earth, and forms the spirit of man within him says: 
ZEC  12\v 1 A revelation of Yahweh’s word concerning Israel: Yahweh, who stretches out the heavens and lays the foundation of the earth, and forms the spirit of man within him says: 
ZEC  12\v 3 It will happen in that day, that I will make Jerusalem a burdensome stone for all the peoples. All who burden themselves with it will be severely wounded, and all the nations of the earth will be gathered together against it. 
ZEC  12\v 3 It will happen in that day that I will make Jerusalem a burdensome stone for all the peoples. All who burden themselves with it will be severely wounded, and all the nations of the earth will be gathered together against it. 
ZEC  12\v 11 In that day there will be a great mourning in Jerusalem, like the mourning of Hadadrimmon in the valley of Megiddon. 
ZEC  12\v 11 In that day there will be a great mourning in Jerusalem, like the mourning of Hadadrimmon in the valley of Megiddo. 
ZEC  13\v 1 “In that day there will be a spring opened to David’s house and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, for sin and for uncleanness. 
ZEC  13\v 1 “In that day there will be a fountain opened to David’s house and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, for sin and for uncleanness. 
ZEC  13\v 3 It will happen that, when anyone still prophesies, then his father and his mother who bore him will tell him, ‘You must die, because you speak lies in Yahweh’s name;’ and his father and his mother who bore him will stab him when he prophesies. 
ZEC  13\v 3 It will happen that when anyone still prophesies, then his father and his mother who bore him will tell him, ‘You must die, because you speak lies in Yahweh’s name;’ and his father and his mother who bore him will stab him when he prophesies. 
ZEC  14\v 5 You shall flee by the valley of my mountains; for the valley of the mountains shall reach to Azel; yes, you shall flee, just like you fled from before the earthquake in the days of Uzziah king of Judah. Yahweh my God will come, and all the holy ones with you.\f + \fr 14:5  \ft Septuagint reads “him” instead of “you”.\f* 
ZEC  14\v 5 You shall flee by the valley of my mountains, for the valley of the mountains shall reach to Azel. Yes, you shall flee, just like you fled from before the earthquake in the days of Uzziah king of Judah. Yahweh my God will come, and all the holy ones with you.\f + \fr 14:5  \ft Septuagint reads “him” instead of “you”.\f* 
ZEC  14\v 7 It will be a unique day which is known to Yahweh; not day, and not night; but it will come to pass, that at evening time there will be light. 
ZEC  14\v 7 It will be a unique day which is known to Yahweh—not day, and not night; but it will come to pass that at evening time there will be light. 
ZEC  14\v 13 It will happen in that day, that a great panic from Yahweh will be among them; and they will each hold onto the hand of his neighbor, and his hand will rise up against the hand of his neighbor. 
ZEC  14\v 13 It will happen in that day that a great panic from Yahweh will be among them; and they will each seize the hand of his neighbor, and his hand will rise up against the hand of his neighbor. 
ZEC  14\v 17 It will be, that whoever of all the families of the earth doesn’t go up to Jerusalem to worship the King, Yahweh of Armies, on them there will be no rain. 
ZEC  14\v 17 It will be that whoever of all the families of the earth doesn’t go up to Jerusalem to worship the King, Yahweh of Armies, on them there will be no rain. 
ZEC  14\v 19 This will be the punishment of Egypt, and the punishment of all the nations that don’t go up to keep the feast of booths. 
ZEC  14\v 19 This will be the punishment of Egypt and the punishment of all the nations that don’t go up to keep the feast of booths. 
ZEC  14\v 21 Yes, every pot in Jerusalem and in Judah will be holy to Yahweh of Armies; and all those who sacrifice will come and take of them, and cook in them. In that day there will no longer be a Canaanite in the house of Yahweh of Armies. ZEC  14\v 21 Yes, every pot in Jerusalem and in Judah will be holy to Yahweh of Armies; and all those who sacrifice will come and take of them, and cook in them. In that day there will no longer be a Canaanite\f + \fr 14:21  \ft or, merchant\f* in the house of Yahweh of Armies. MAL   1\v 11 For from the rising of the sun even to its going down, my name is great among the nations, and in every place incense will be offered to my name, and a pure offering: for my name is great among the nations,” says Yahweh of Armies. 
MAL   1\v 11 For from the rising of the sun even to its going down, my name is great among the nations, and in every place incense will be offered to my name, and a pure offering; for my name is great among the nations,” says Yahweh of Armies. 
MAL   1\v 13 You say also, ‘Behold,\f + \fr 1:13  \ft “Behold”, from “הִנֵּה”, means look at, take notice, observe, see, or gaze at. It is often used as an interjection.\f* what a weariness it is!’ and you have sniffed at it”, says Yahweh of Armies; “and you have brought that which was taken by violence, the lame, and the sick; thus you bring the offering. Should I accept this at your hand?” says Yahweh. 
MAL   1\v 13 You say also, ‘Behold,\f + \fr 1:13  \ft “Behold”, from “הִנֵּה”, means look at, take notice, observe, see, or gaze at. It is often used as an interjection.\f* what a weariness it is!’ And you have sniffed at it”, says Yahweh of Armies; “and you have brought that which was taken by violence, the lame, and the sick; thus you bring the offering. Should I accept this at your hand?” says Yahweh. 
MAL   2\v 13 This again you do: you cover Yahweh’s altar with tears, with weeping, and with sighing, because he doesn’t regard the offering any more, neither receives it with good will at your hand. 
MAL   2\v 13 “This again you do: you cover Yahweh’s altar with tears, with weeping, and with sighing, because he doesn’t regard the offering any more, neither receives it with good will at your hand. 
MAL   3\v 1 “Behold, I send my messenger, and he will prepare the way before me; and the Lord, whom you seek, will suddenly come to his temple; and the messenger of the covenant, whom you desire, behold, he comes!” says Yahweh of Armies. 
MAL   3\v 1 “Behold, I send my messenger, and he will prepare the way before me! The Lord, whom you seek, will suddenly come to his temple. Behold, the messenger of the covenant, whom you desire, is coming!” says Yahweh of Armies. 
MAL   3\v 5 I will come near to you to judgment; and I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers, and against the adulterers, and against the perjurers, and against those who oppress the hireling in his wages, the widow, and the fatherless, and who deprive the foreigner of justice, and don’t fear me,” says Yahweh of Armies. 
MAL   3\v 5 I will come near to you to judgment. I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers, against the adulterers, against the perjurers, and against those who oppress the hireling in his wages, the widow, and the fatherless, and who deprive the foreigner of justice, and don’t fear me,” says Yahweh of Armies. 
MAL   3\v 7 From the days of your fathers you have turned away from my ordinances, and have not kept them. Return to me, and I will return to you,” says Yahweh of Armies. “But you say, ‘How shall we return?’ 
MAL   3\v 7 From the days of your fathers you have turned away from my ordinances and have not kept them. Return to me, and I will return to you,” says Yahweh of Armies. “But you say, ‘How shall we return?’ 
MAL   3\v 13 “Your words have been stout against me,” says Yahweh. “Yet you say, ‘What have we spoken against you?’ 
MAL   3\v 13 “Your words have been harsh against me,” says Yahweh. “Yet you say, ‘What have we spoken against you?’ 
MAL   3\v 17 They shall be mine,” says Yahweh of Armies, “my own possession in the day that I make, and I will spare them, as a man spares his own son who serves him. 
MAL   3\v 17 They shall be mine,” says Yahweh of Armies, “my own possession in the day that I make. I will spare them, as a man spares his own son who serves him. 
MAL   4\v 1 “For, behold, the day comes, it burns as a furnace; and all the proud, and all who work wickedness, will be stubble; and the day that comes will burn them up,” says Yahweh of Armies, “that it shall leave them neither root nor branch. 
MAL   4\v 1 “For behold, the day comes, burning like a furnace, when all the proud and all who work wickedness will be stubble. The day that comes will burn them up,” says Yahweh of Armies, “so that it will leave them neither root nor branch. 
MAL   4\v 6 He will turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the hearts of the children to their fathers, lest I come and strike the earth with a curse.” MAL   4\v 6 He will turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and the hearts of the children to their fathers, lest I come and strike the earth with a curse.” MAT  13\v 49  \wj So will it be in the end of the world.\wj*\f + \fr 13:49  \ft  or, end of the age.\f* \wj The angels will come and separate the wicked from among the righteous, \wj* 
MAT  13\v 49  \wj So it will be in the end of the world.\wj*\f + \fr 13:49  \ft  or, end of the age.\f* \wj The angels will come and separate the wicked from among the righteous, \wj* 
MAT  14\v 3 For Herod had arrested John, and bound him, and put him in prison for the sake of Herodias, his brother Philip’s wife. 
MAT  14\v 3 For Herod had arrested John, bound him, and put him in prison for the sake of Herodias, his brother Philip’s wife. 
MAT  15\v 9  \wj And in vain do they worship me,\wj* 
MAT  15\v 9  \wj And they worship me in vain,\wj* 
MAT  15\v 29 Jesus departed from there and came near to the sea of Galilee; and he went up into the mountain and sat there. 
MAT  15\v 29 Jesus departed from there and came near to the sea of Galilee; and he went up on the mountain and sat there. 
MAT  18\v 23  \wj Therefore the Kingdom of Heaven is like a certain king, who wanted to settle accounts with his servants. \wj* 
MAT  18\v 23  \wj Therefore the Kingdom of Heaven is like a certain king who wanted to settle accounts with his servants. \wj* 
MAR   3\v 1 He entered again into the synagogue, and there was a man there who had his hand withered. 
MAR   3\v 1 He entered again into the synagogue, and there was a man there whose hand was withered. 
MAR   3\v 3 He said to the man who had his hand withered, \wj “Stand up.”\wj* 
MAR   3\v 3 He said to the man whose hand was withered, \wj “Stand up.”\wj* 
MAR   4\v 1 Again he began to teach by the seaside. A great multitude was gathered to him, so that he entered into a boat in the sea, and sat down. All the multitude were on the land by the sea. 
MAR   4\v 1 Again he began to teach by the seaside. A great multitude was gathered to him, so that he entered into a boat in the sea and sat down. All the multitude were on the land by the sea. 
MAR   4\v 3  \wj “Listen! Behold, the farmer went out to sow, \wj* 
MAR   4\v 3  \wj “Listen! Behold, the farmer went out to sow. \wj* 
MAR   4\v 7  \wj Others fell among the thorns, and the thorns grew up, and choked it, and it yielded no fruit. \wj* 
MAR   4\v 7  \wj Others fell among the thorns, and the thorns grew up and choked it, and it yielded no fruit. \wj* 
MAR   4\v 15  \wj The ones by the road are the ones where the word is sown; and when they have heard, immediately Satan comes, and takes away the word which has been sown in them. \wj* 
MAR   4\v 15  \wj The ones by the road are the ones where the word is sown; and when they have heard, immediately Satan comes and takes away the word which has been sown in them. \wj* 
MAR   4\v 21 He said to them, \wj “Is the lamp brought to be put under a basket \wj*\f + \fr 4:21  \ft literally, a modion, a dry measuring basket containing about a peck (about 9 liters)\f* \wj or under a bed? Isn’t it put on a stand? \wj* 
MAR   4\v 21 He said to them, \wj “Is a lamp brought to be put under a basket \wj*\f + \fr 4:21  \ft literally, a modion, a dry measuring basket containing about a peck (about 9 liters)\f* \wj or under a bed? Isn’t it put on a stand? \wj* 
MAR   4\v 25  \wj For whoever has, to him more will be given, and he who doesn’t have, even that which he has will be taken away from him.”\wj* 
MAR   4\v 25  \wj For whoever has, to him more will be given; and he who doesn’t have, even that which he has will be taken away from him.”\wj* 
MAR   4\v 39 He awoke, and rebuked the wind, and said to the sea, \wj “Peace! Be still!”\wj* The wind ceased, and there was a great calm. 
MAR   4\v 39 He awoke and rebuked the wind, and said to the sea, \wj “Peace! Be still!”\wj* The wind ceased and there was a great calm. 
MAR   5\v 41 They were greatly afraid, and said to one another, “Who then is this, that even the wind and the sea obey him?” 
MAR   5\v 41 They were greatly afraid and said to one another, “Who then is this, that even the wind and the sea obey him?” 
MAR   5\v 19 He didn’t allow him, but said to him, \wj “Go to your house, to your friends, and tell them what great things the Lord has done for you, and how he had mercy on you.”\wj* 
MAR   5\v 19 He didn’t allow him, but said to him, \wj “Go to your house, to your friends, and tell them what great things the Lord has done for you and how he had mercy on you.”\wj* 
MAR   5\v 25 A certain woman, who had a discharge of blood for twelve years, 
MAR   5\v 25 A certain woman who had a discharge of blood for twelve years, 
MAR   5\v 27 having heard the things concerning Jesus, came up behind him in the crowd, and touched his clothes. 
MAR   5\v 27 having heard the things concerning Jesus, came up behind him in the crowd and touched his clothes. 
MAR   5\v 35 While he was still speaking, people came from the synagogue ruler’s house saying, “Your daughter is dead. Why bother the Teacher any more?” 
MAR   5\v 35 While he was still speaking, people came from the synagogue ruler’s house, saying, “Your daughter is dead. Why bother the Teacher any more?” 
MAR   5\v 37 He allowed no one to follow him, except Peter, James, and John the brother of James. 
MAR   5\v 37 He allowed no one to follow him except Peter, James, and John the brother of James. 
MAR   6\v 3 Isn’t this the carpenter, the son of Mary, and brother of James, Joses, Judah, and Simon? Aren’t his sisters here with us?” So they were offended at him. 
MAR   6\v 3 Isn’t this the carpenter, the son of Mary and brother of James, Joses, Judah, and Simon? Aren’t his sisters here with us?” So they were offended at him. 
MAR   6\v 5 He could do no mighty work there, except that he laid his hands on a few sick people, and healed them. 
MAR   6\v 5 He could do no mighty work there, except that he laid his hands on a few sick people and healed them. 
MAR   6\v 13 They cast out many demons, and anointed many with oil who were sick, and healed them. 
MAR   6\v 13 They cast out many demons, and anointed many with oil who were sick and healed them. 
MAR   6\v 17 For Herod himself had sent out and arrested John, and bound him in prison for the sake of Herodias, his brother Philip’s wife, for he had married her. 
MAR   6\v 17 For Herod himself had sent out and arrested John and bound him in prison for the sake of Herodias, his brother Philip’s wife, for he had married her. 
MAR   6\v 19 Herodias set herself against him, and desired to kill him, but she couldn’t, 
MAR   6\v 19 Herodias set herself against him and desired to kill him, but she couldn’t, 
MAR   6\v 21 Then a convenient day came, that Herod on his birthday made a supper for his nobles, the high officers, and the chief men of Galilee. 
MAR   6\v 21 Then a convenient day came when Herod on his birthday made a supper for his nobles, the high officers, and the chief men of Galilee. 
MAR   6\v 23 He swore to her, “Whatever you shall ask of me, I will give you, up to half of my kingdom.” 
MAR   6\v 23 He swore to her, “Whatever you ask of me, I will give you, up to half of my kingdom.” 
MAR   6\v 25 She came in immediately with haste to the king, and asked, “I want you to give me right now the head of John the Baptizer on a platter.” 
MAR   6\v 25 She came in immediately with haste to the king and requested, “I want you to give me right now the head of John the Baptizer on a platter.” 
MAR   6\v 27 Immediately the king sent out a soldier of his guard, and commanded to bring John’s head, and he went and beheaded him in the prison, 
MAR   6\v 27 Immediately the king sent out a soldier of his guard and commanded to bring John’s head; and he went and beheaded him in the prison, 
MAR   6\v 29 When his disciples heard this, they came and took up his corpse, and laid it in a tomb. 
MAR   6\v 29 When his disciples heard this, they came and took up his corpse and laid it in a tomb. 
MAR   6\v 31 He said to them, \wj “You come apart into a deserted place, and rest awhile.”\wj* For there were many coming and going, and they had no leisure so much as to eat. 
MAR   6\v 31 He said to them, \wj “Come away into a deserted place, and rest awhile.”\wj* For there were many coming and going, and they had no leisure so much as to eat. 
MAR   6\v 35 When it was late in the day, his disciples came to him, and said, “This place is deserted, and it is late in the day. 
MAR   6\v 35 When it was late in the day, his disciples came to him and said, “This place is deserted, and it is late in the day. 
MAR   6\v 41 He took the five loaves and the two fish, and looking up to heaven, he blessed and broke the loaves, and he gave to his disciples to set before them, and he divided the two fish among them all. 
MAR   6\v 41 He took the five loaves and the two fish; and looking up to heaven, he blessed and broke the loaves, and he gave to his disciples to set before them, and he divided the two fish among them all. 
MAR   6\v 45 Immediately he made his disciples get into the boat, and go ahead to the other side, to Bethsaida, while he himself sent the multitude away. 
MAR   6\v 45 Immediately he made his disciples get into the boat and go ahead to the other side, to Bethsaida, while he himself sent the multitude away. 
MAR   6\v 53 When they had crossed over, they came to land at Gennesaret, and moored to the shore. 
MAR   6\v 53 When they had crossed over, they came to land at Gennesaret and moored to the shore. 
MAR   7\v 7  \wj But they worship me in vain,\wj* 
MAR   7\v 7  \wj They worship me in vain,\wj* 
MAR   7\v 15  \wj There is nothing from outside of the man, that going into him can defile him; but the things which proceed out of the man are those that defile the man. \wj* 
MAR   7\v 15  \wj There is nothing from outside of the man that going into him can defile him; but the things which proceed out of the man are those that defile the man. \wj* 
MAR   7\v 23  \wj All these evil things come from within, and defile the man.” \wj* 
MAR   7\v 23  \wj All these evil things come from within and defile the man.” \wj* 
MAR   7\v 25 For a woman, whose little daughter had an unclean spirit, having heard of him, came and fell down at his feet. 
MAR   7\v 25 For a woman whose little daughter had an unclean spirit, having heard of him, came and fell down at his feet. 
MAR   7\v 31 Again he departed from the borders of Tyre and Sidon, and came to the sea of Galilee, through the middle of the region of Decapolis. 
MAR   7\v 31 Again he departed from the borders of Tyre and Sidon, and came to the sea of Galilee through the middle of the region of Decapolis. 
MAR   7\v 33 He took him aside from the multitude, privately, and put his fingers into his ears, and he spat, and touched his tongue. 
MAR   7\v 33 He took him aside from the multitude privately and put his fingers into his ears; and he spat and touched his tongue. 
MAR   8\v 37 They were astonished beyond measure, saying, “He has done all things well. He makes even the deaf hear, and the mute speak!” 
MAR   8\v 37 They were astonished beyond measure, saying, “He has done all things well. He makes even the deaf hear and the mute speak!” 
MAR   8\v 1 In those days, when there was a very great multitude, and they had nothing to eat, Jesus called his disciples to himself, and said to them, 
MAR   8\v 1 In those days, when there was a very great multitude, and they had nothing to eat, Jesus called his disciples to himself and said to them, 
MAR   8\v 7 They had a few small fish. Having blessed them, he said to serve these also. 
MAR   8\v 7 They also had a few small fish. Having blessed them, he said to serve these also. 
MAR   8\v 11 The Pharisees came out and began to question him, seeking from him a sign from heaven, and testing him. 
MAR   8\v 11 The Pharisees came out and began to question him, seeking from him a sign from heaven and testing him. 
MAR   8\v 17 Jesus, perceiving it, said to them, \wj “Why do you reason that it’s because you have no bread? Don’t you perceive yet, neither understand? Is your heart still hardened? \wj* 
MAR   8\v 17 Jesus, perceiving it, said to them, \wj “Why do you reason that it’s because you have no bread? Don’t you perceive yet or understand? Is your heart still hardened? \wj* 
MAR   8\v 33 But he, turning around, and seeing his disciples, rebuked Peter, and said, \wj “Get behind me, Satan! For you have in mind not the things of God, but the things of men.”\wj* 
MAR   8\v 33 But he, turning around and seeing his disciples, rebuked Peter, and said, \wj “Get behind me, Satan! For you have in mind not the things of God, but the things of men.”\wj* 
MAR   9\v 21 He asked his father, \wj “How long has it been since this has come to him?”\wj* 
MAR   9\v 21 He asked his father, \wj “How long has it been since this has been happening to him?”\wj* 
MAR   9\v 27 But Jesus took him by the hand, and raised him up; and he arose. 
MAR   9\v 27 But Jesus took him by the hand and raised him up; and he arose. 
MAR   9\v 29 He said to them, \wj “This kind can come out by nothing, except by prayer and fasting.”\wj* 
MAR   9\v 29 He said to them, \wj “This kind can come out by nothing but by prayer and fasting.”\wj* 
MAR   9\v 31 For he was teaching his disciples, and said to them, \wj “The Son of Man is being handed over to the hands of men, and they will kill him; and when he is killed, on the third day he will rise again.”\wj* 
MAR   9\v 31 for he was teaching his disciples, and said to them, \wj “The Son of Man is being handed over to the hands of men, and they will kill him; and when he is killed, on the third day he will rise again.”\wj* 
MAR   9\v 35 He sat down, and called the twelve; and he said to them, \wj “If any man wants to be first, he shall be last of all, and servant of all.”\wj* 
MAR   9\v 35 He sat down and called the twelve; and he said to them, \wj “If any man wants to be first, he shall be last of all, and servant of all.”\wj* 
MAR   9\v 37  \wj “Whoever receives one such little child in my name, receives me, and whoever receives me, doesn’t receive me, but him who sent me.”\wj* 
MAR   9\v 37  \wj “Whoever receives one such little child in my name receives me; and whoever receives me, doesn’t receive me, but him who sent me.”\wj* 
MAR   9\v 39 But Jesus said, \wj “Don’t forbid him, for there is no one who will do a mighty work in my name, and be able quickly to speak evil of me. \wj* 
MAR   9\v 39 But Jesus said, \wj “Don’t forbid him, for there is no one who will do a mighty work in my name and be able quickly to speak evil of me. \wj* 
MAR   9\v 41  \wj For whoever will give you a cup of water to drink in my name, because you are Christ’s, most certainly I tell you, he will in no way lose his reward. \wj* 
MAR   9\v 41  \wj For whoever will give you a cup of water to drink in my name because you are Christ’s, most certainly I tell you, he will in no way lose his reward. \wj* 
MAR   9\v 47  \wj If your eye causes you to stumble, cast it out. It is better for you to enter into God’s Kingdom with one eye, rather than having two eyes to be cast into the Gehenna\wj*\f + \fr 9:47  \ft or, Hell\f* \wj of fire, \wj* 
MAR   9\v 47  \wj If your eye causes you to stumble, throw it out. It is better for you to enter into God’s Kingdom with one eye, rather than having two eyes to be cast into the Gehenna\wj*\f + \fr 9:47  \ft or, Hell\f* \wj of fire, \wj* 
MAR  10\v 11 He said to them, \wj “Whoever divorces his wife, and marries another, commits adultery against her. \wj* 
MAR  10\v 11 He said to them, \wj “Whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery against her. \wj* 
MAR  10\v 21 Jesus looking at him loved him, and said to him, \wj “One thing you lack. Go, sell whatever you have, and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me, taking up the cross.”\wj* 
MAR  10\v 21 Jesus looking at him loved him, and said to him, \wj “One thing you lack. Go, sell whatever you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me, taking up the cross.”\wj* 
MAR  10\v 23 Jesus looked around, and said to his disciples, \wj “How difficult it is for those who have riches to enter into God’s Kingdom!”\wj* 
MAR  10\v 23 Jesus looked around and said to his disciples, \wj “How difficult it is for those who have riches to enter into God’s Kingdom!”\wj* 
MAR  10\v 31  \wj But many who are first will be last; and the last first.”\wj* 
MAR  10\v 31  \wj But many who are first will be last, and the last first.”\wj* 
MAR  10\v 37 They said to him, “Grant to us that we may sit, one at your right hand, and one at your left hand, in your glory.” 
MAR  10\v 37 They said to him, “Grant to us that we may sit, one at your right hand and one at your left hand, in your glory.” 
MAR  10\v 45  \wj For the Son of Man also came not to be served, but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many.”\wj* 
MAR  10\v 45  \wj For the Son of Man also came not to be served but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many.”\wj* 
MAR  10\v 47 When he heard that it was Jesus the Nazarene, he began to cry out, and say, “Jesus, you son of David, have mercy on me!” 
MAR  10\v 47 When he heard that it was Jesus the Nazarene, he began to cry out and say, “Jesus, you son of David, have mercy on me!” 
MAR  10\v 49 Jesus stood still, and said, \wj “Call him.”\wj* 
MAR  10\v 49 Jesus stood still and said, \wj “Call him.”\wj* 
MAR  11\v 1 When they came near to Jerusalem, to Bethsphage\f + \fr 11:1  \ft TR & NU read “Bethphage” instead of “Bethsphage”\f* and Bethany, at the Mount of Olives, he sent two of his disciples, 
MAR  11\v 1 When they came near to Jerusalem, to Bethsphage\f + \fr 11:1  \ft TR & NU read “Bethphage” instead of “Bethsphage”\f* and Bethany, at the Mount of Olives, he sent two of his disciples 
MAR  11\v 7 They brought the young donkey to Jesus, and threw their garments on it, and Jesus sat on it. 
MAR  11\v 7 They brought the young donkey to Jesus and threw their garments on it, and Jesus sat on it. 
MAR  11\v 9 Those who went in front, and those who followed, cried out, “Hosanna!\f + \fr 11:9  \ft “Hosanna” means “save us” or “help us, we pray”.\f* Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord!\x + \xo 11:9  \xt Psalm 118:25-26\x* 
MAR  11\v 9 Those who went in front and those who followed cried out, “Hosanna!\f + \fr 11:9  \ft “Hosanna” means “save us” or “help us, we pray”.\f* Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord!\x + \xo 11:9  \xt Psalm 118:25-26\x* 
MAR  11\v 15 They came to Jerusalem, and Jesus entered into the temple, and began to throw out those who sold and those who bought in the temple, and overthrew the money changers’ tables, and the seats of those who sold the doves. 
MAR  11\v 15 They came to Jerusalem, and Jesus entered into the temple and began to throw out those who sold and those who bought in the temple, and overthrew the money changers’ tables and the seats of those who sold the doves. 
MAR  11\v 23  \wj For most certainly I tell you, whoever may tell this mountain, ‘Be taken up and cast into the sea,’ and doesn’t doubt in his heart, but believes that what he says is happening; he shall have whatever he says. \wj* 
MAR  11\v 23  \wj For most certainly I tell you, whoever may tell this mountain, ‘Be taken up and cast into the sea,’ and doesn’t doubt in his heart, but believes that what he says is happening, he shall have whatever he says. \wj* 
MAR  12\v 5  \wj Again he sent another; and they killed him; and many others, beating some, and killing some. \wj* 
MAR  12\v 5  \wj Again he sent another, and they killed him, and many others, beating some, and killing some. \wj* 
MAR  12\v 19 “Teacher, Moses wrote to us, ‘If a man’s brother dies, and leaves a wife behind him, and leaves no children, that his brother should take his wife, and raise up offspring for his brother.’ 
MAR  12\v 19 “Teacher, Moses wrote to us, ‘If a man’s brother dies and leaves a wife behind him, and leaves no children, that his brother should take his wife and raise up offspring for his brother.’ 
MAR  12\v 25  \wj For when they will rise from the dead, they neither marry, nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven. \wj* 
MAR  12\v 25  \wj For when they will rise from the dead, they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven. \wj* 
MAR  12\v 29 Jesus answered, \wj “The greatest is, ‘Hear, Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one: \wj* 
MAR  12\v 29 Jesus answered, \wj “The greatest is: ‘Hear, Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. \wj* 
MAR  12\v 31  \wj The second is like this, ‘You shall love your neighbor as yourself.’\wj*\x + \xo 12:31  \xt Leviticus 19:18\x* \wj There is no other commandment greater than these.”\wj* 
MAR  12\v 31  \wj The second is like this: ‘You shall love your neighbor as yourself.’\wj*\x + \xo 12:31  \xt Leviticus 19:18\x* \wj There is no other commandment greater than these.”\wj* 
MAR  12\v 33 and to love him with all the heart, and with all the understanding, with all the soul, and with all the strength, and to love his neighbor as himself, is more important than all whole burnt offerings and sacrifices.” 
MAR  12\v 33 and to love him with all the heart, with all the understanding, all the soul, and with all the strength, and to love his neighbor as himself, is more important than all whole burnt offerings and sacrifices.” 
MAR  12\v 39  \wj and the best seats in the synagogues, and the best places at feasts: \wj* 
MAR  12\v 39  \wj and to get the best seats in the synagogues and the best places at feasts, \wj* 
MAR  12\v 41 Jesus sat down opposite the treasury, and saw how the multitude cast money into the treasury. Many who were rich cast in much. 
MAR  12\v 41 Jesus sat down opposite the treasury and saw how the multitude cast money into the treasury. Many who were rich cast in much. 
MAR  12\v 43 He called his disciples to himself, and said to them, \wj “Most certainly I tell you, this poor widow gave more than all those who are giving into the treasury, \wj* 
MAR  12\v 43 He called his disciples to himself and said to them, \wj “Most certainly I tell you, this poor widow gave more than all those who are giving into the treasury, \wj* 
MAR  13\v 9  \wj But watch yourselves, for they will deliver you up to councils. You will be beaten in synagogues. You will stand before rulers and kings for my sake, for a testimony to them. \wj* 
MAR  13\v 9  \wj “But watch yourselves, for they will deliver you up to councils. You will be beaten in synagogues. You will stand before rulers and kings for my sake, for a testimony to them. \wj* 
MAR  13\v 11  \wj When they lead you away and deliver you up, don’t be anxious beforehand, or premeditate what you will say, but say whatever will be given you in that hour. For it is not you who speak, but the Holy Spirit.\wj* 
MAR  13\v 11  \wj When they lead you away and deliver you up, don’t be anxious beforehand or premeditate what you will say, but say whatever will be given you in that hour. For it is not you who speak, but the Holy Spirit.\wj* 
MAR  13\v 35  \wj Watch therefore, for you don’t know when the lord of the house is coming, whether at evening, or at midnight, or when the rooster crows, or in the morning; \wj* 
MAR  13\v 35  \wj Watch therefore, for you don’t know when the lord of the house is coming—whether at evening, or at midnight, or when the rooster crows, or in the morning; \wj* 
MAR  14\v 37  \wj What I tell you, I tell all: Watch.”\wj* 
MAR  14\v 37  \wj What I tell you, I tell all: Watch!”\wj* 
MAR  14\v 1 It was now two days before the feast of the Passover and the unleavened bread, and the chief priests and the scribes sought how they might seize him by deception, and kill him. 
MAR  14\v 1 It was now two days before the Passover and the Feast of Unleavened Bread, and the chief priests and the scribes sought how they might seize him by deception and kill him. 
MAR  14\v 3 While he was at Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper, as he sat at the table, a woman came having an alabaster jar of ointment of pure nard—very costly. She broke the jar, and poured it over his head. 
MAR  14\v 3 While he was at Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper, as he sat at the table, a woman came having an alabaster jar of ointment of pure nard—very costly. She broke the jar and poured it over his head. 
MAR  14\v 5 For this might have been sold for more than three hundred denarii,\f + \fr 14:5  \ft 300 denarii was about a year’s wages for an agricultural laborer. \f* and given to the poor.” So they grumbled against her. 
MAR  14\v 5 For this might have been sold for more than three hundred denarii\f + \fr 14:5  \ft 300 denarii was about a year’s wages for an agricultural laborer. \f* and given to the poor.” So they grumbled against her. 
MAR  14\v 13 He sent two of his disciples, and said to them, \wj “Go into the city, and there a man carrying a pitcher of water will meet you. Follow him, \wj* 
MAR  14\v 13 He sent two of his disciples and said to them, \wj “Go into the city, and there a man carrying a pitcher of water will meet you. Follow him, \wj* 
MAR  14\v 21  \wj For the Son of Man goes, even as it is written about him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed! It would be better for that man if he had not been born.”\wj* 
MAR  14\v 21  \wj For the Son of Man goes as it is written about him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed! It would be better for that man if he had not been born.”\wj* 
MAR  14\v 25  \wj Most certainly I tell you, I will no more drink of the fruit of the vine, until that day when I drink it anew in God’s Kingdom.”\wj* 
MAR  14\v 25  \wj Most certainly I tell you, I will no more drink of the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it anew in God’s Kingdom.”\wj* 
MAR  14\v 35 He went forward a little, and fell on the ground, and prayed that, if it were possible, the hour might pass away from him. 
MAR  14\v 35 He went forward a little, and fell on the ground, and prayed that if it were possible, the hour might pass away from him. 
MAR  14\v 39 Again he went away, and prayed, saying the same words. 
MAR  14\v 39 Again he went away and prayed, saying the same words. 
MAR  14\v 41 He came the third time, and said to them, \wj “Sleep on now, and take your rest. It is enough. The hour has come. Behold, the Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. \wj* 
MAR  14\v 41 He came the third time and said to them, \wj “Sleep on now, and take your rest. It is enough. The hour has come. Behold, the Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. \wj* 
MAR  14\v 45 When he had come, immediately he came to him, and said, “Rabbi! Rabbi!” and kissed him. 
MAR  14\v 45 When he had come, immediately he came to him and said, “Rabbi! Rabbi!” and kissed him. 
MAR  14\v 47 But a certain one of those who stood by drew his sword, and struck the servant of the high priest, and cut off his ear. 
MAR  14\v 47 But a certain one of those who stood by drew his sword and struck the servant of the high priest, and cut off his ear. 
MAR  14\v 57 Some stood up, and gave false testimony against him, saying, 
MAR  14\v 57 Some stood up and gave false testimony against him, saying, 
MAR  14\v 63 The high priest tore his clothes, and said, “What further need have we of witnesses? 
MAR  14\v 63 The high priest tore his clothes and said, “What further need have we of witnesses? 
MAR  14\v 67 and seeing Peter warming himself, she looked at him, and said, “You were also with the Nazarene, Jesus!” 
MAR  14\v 67 and seeing Peter warming himself, she looked at him and said, “You were also with the Nazarene, Jesus!” 
MAR  14\v 69 The maid saw him, and began again to tell those who stood by, “This is one of them.” 
MAR  14\v 69 The maid saw him and began again to tell those who stood by, “This is one of them.” 
MAR  14\v 71 But he began to curse, and to swear, “I don’t know this man of whom you speak!” 
MAR  14\v 71 But he began to curse and to swear, “I don’t know this man of whom you speak!” 
MAR  15\v 1 Immediately in the morning the chief priests, with the elders and scribes, and the whole council, held a consultation, bound Jesus, carried him away, and delivered him up to Pilate. 
MAR  15\v 1 Immediately in the morning the chief priests, with the elders, scribes, and the whole council, held a consultation, bound Jesus, carried him away, and delivered him up to Pilate. 
MAR  15\v 17 They clothed him with purple, and weaving a crown of thorns, they put it on him. 
MAR  15\v 17 They clothed him with purple; and weaving a crown of thorns, they put it on him. 
MAR  15\v 19 They struck his head with a reed, and spat on him, and bowing their knees, did homage to him. 
MAR  15\v 19 They struck his head with a reed and spat on him, and bowing their knees, did homage to him. 
MAR  15\v 21 They compelled one passing by, coming from the country, Simon of Cyrene, the father of Alexander and Rufus, to go with them, that he might bear his cross. 
MAR  15\v 21 They compelled one passing by, coming from the country, Simon of Cyrene, the father of Alexander and Rufus, to go with them that he might bear his cross. 
MAR  15\v 25 It was the third hour,\f + \fr 15:25  \ft 9:00 a.m.\f* and they crucified him. 
MAR  15\v 25 It was the third hour\f + \fr 15:25  \ft 9:00 a.m.\f* when they crucified him. 
MAR  15\v 27 With him they crucified two robbers; one on his right hand, and one on his left. 
MAR  15\v 27 With him they crucified two robbers, one on his right hand, and one on his left. 
MAR  15\v 29 Those who passed by blasphemed him, wagging their heads, and saying, “Ha! You who destroy the temple, and build it in three days, 
MAR  15\v 29 Those who passed by blasphemed him, wagging their heads and saying, “Ha! You who destroy the temple and build it in three days, 
MAR  16\v 47 Mary Magdalene and Mary, the mother of Joses, saw where he was laid. 
MAR  16\v 47 Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joses, saw where he was laid. 
MAR  16\v 1 When the Sabbath was past, Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James, and Salome, bought spices, that they might come and anoint him. 
MAR  16\v 1 When the Sabbath was past, Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James, and Salome bought spices, that they might come and anoint him. 
MAR  16\v 5 Entering into the tomb, they saw a young man sitting on the right side, dressed in a white robe, and they were amazed. 
MAR  16\v 5 Entering into the tomb, they saw a young man sitting on the right side, dressed in a white robe; and they were amazed. 
MAR  16\v 11 When they heard that he was alive, and had been seen by her, they disbelieved. 
MAR  16\v 11 When they heard that he was alive and had been seen by her, they disbelieved. 
MAR  16\v 15 He said to them, \wj “Go into all the world, and preach the Good News to the whole creation. \wj* 
MAR  16\v 15 He said to them, \wj “Go into all the world and preach the Good News to the whole creation. \wj* 
MAR  16\v 19 So then the Lord,\f + \fr 16:19  \ft NU adds “Jesus”\f* after he had spoken to them, was received up into heaven, and sat down at the right hand of God. 
MAR  16\v 19 So then the Lord,\f + \fr 16:19  \ft NU adds “Jesus”\f* after he had spoken to them, was received up into heaven and sat down at the right hand of God. 
MAR  16\v 20 They went out, and preached everywhere, the Lord working with them, and confirming the word by the signs that followed. Amen. MAR  16\v 20 They went out and preached everywhere, the Lord working with them and confirming the word by the signs that followed. Amen. LUK   2\v 7 She gave birth to her firstborn son. She wrapped him in bands of cloth, and laid him in a feeding trough, because there was no room for them in the inn. 
LUK   2\v 7 She gave birth to her firstborn son. She wrapped him in bands of cloth and laid him in a feeding trough, because there was no room for them in the inn. 
LUK   2\v 11 For there is born to you today, in David’s city, a Savior, who is Christ the Lord. 
LUK   2\v 11 For there is born to you today, in David’s city, a Savior, who is Christ\f + \fr 2:11  \ft “Christ” means “Anointed One”.\f* the Lord. 
LUK   2\v 13 Suddenly, there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly army praising God, and saying, 
LUK   2\v 13 Suddenly, there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly army praising God and saying, 
LUK   2\v 33 Joseph and his mother were marveling at the things which were spoken concerning him, 
LUK   2\v 33 Joseph and his mother were marveling at the things which were spoken concerning him. 
LUK   2\v 51 And he went down with them, and came to Nazareth. He was subject to them, and his mother kept all these sayings in her heart. 
LUK   2\v 51 And he went down with them and came to Nazareth. He was subject to them, and his mother kept all these sayings in her heart. 
LUK   3\v 9 Even now the ax also lies at the root of the trees. Every tree therefore that doesn’t produce good fruit is cut down, and thrown into the fire.” 
LUK   3\v 9 Even now the ax also lies at the root of the trees. Every tree therefore that doesn’t produce good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire.” 
LUK   3\v 17 whose fan is in his hand, and he will thoroughly cleanse his threshing floor, and will gather the wheat into his barn; but he will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire.” 
LUK   3\v 17 His winnowing fan is in his hand, and he will thoroughly cleanse his threshing floor, and will gather the wheat into his barn; but he will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire.” 
LUK   3\v 21 Now when all the people were baptized, Jesus also had been baptized, and was praying. The sky was opened, 
LUK   3\v 21 Now when all the people were baptized, Jesus also had been baptized and was praying. The sky was opened, 
LUK   4\v 1 Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan, and was led by the Spirit into the wilderness 
LUK   4\v 1 Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan and was led by the Spirit into the wilderness 
LUK   4\v 9 He led him to Jerusalem, and set him on the pinnacle of the temple, and said to him, “If you are the Son of God, cast yourself down from here, 
LUK   4\v 9 He led him to Jerusalem and set him on the pinnacle of the temple, and said to him, “If you are the Son of God, cast yourself down from here, 
LUK   4\v 23 He said to them, \wj “Doubtless you will tell me this parable, ‘Physician, heal yourself! Whatever we have heard done at Capernaum, do also here in your hometown.’”\wj* 
LUK   4\v 23 He said to them, \wj “Doubtless you will tell me this proverb, ‘Physician, heal yourself! Whatever we have heard done at Capernaum, do also here in your hometown.’”\wj* 
LUK   4\v 33 In the synagogue there was a man who had a spirit of an unclean demon, and he cried out with a loud voice, 
LUK   4\v 33 In the synagogue there was a man who had a spirit of an unclean demon; and he cried out with a loud voice, 
LUK   4\v 35 Jesus rebuked him, saying, \wj “Be silent, and come out of him!” \wj* When the demon had thrown him down in the middle of them, he came out of him, having done him no harm. 
LUK   4\v 35 Jesus rebuked him, saying, \wj “Be silent and come out of him!” \wj* When the demon had thrown him down in the middle of them, he came out of him, having done him no harm. 
LUK   4\v 39 He stood over her, and rebuked the fever; and it left her. Immediately she rose up and served them. 
LUK   4\v 39 He stood over her and rebuked the fever, and it left her. Immediately she rose up and served them. 
LUK   4\v 41 Demons also came out of many, crying out, and saying, “You are the Christ, the Son of God!” Rebuking them, he didn’t allow them to speak, because they knew that he was the Christ. 
LUK   4\v 41 Demons also came out of many, crying out and saying, “You are the Christ, the Son of God!” Rebuking them, he didn’t allow them to speak, because they knew that he was the Christ. 
LUK   5\v 5 Simon answered him, “Master, we worked all night, and took nothing; but at your word I will let down the net.” 
LUK   5\v 5 Simon answered him, “Master, we worked all night and caught nothing; but at your word I will let down the net.” 
LUK   5\v 7 They beckoned to their partners in the other boat, that they should come and help them. They came, and filled both boats, so that they began to sink. 
LUK   5\v 7 They beckoned to their partners in the other boat, that they should come and help them. They came and filled both boats, so that they began to sink. 
LUK   5\v 13 He stretched out his hand, and touched him, saying, \wj “I want to. Be made clean.”\wj* 
LUK   5\v 13 He stretched out his hand and touched him, saying, \wj “I want to. Be made clean.”\wj* 
LUK   5\v 15 But the report concerning him spread much more, and great multitudes came together to hear, and to be healed by him of their infirmities. 
LUK   5\v 15 But the report concerning him spread much more, and great multitudes came together to hear and to be healed by him of their infirmities. 
LUK   5\v 17 On one of those days, he was teaching; and there were Pharisees and teachers of the law sitting by, who had come out of every village of Galilee, Judea, and Jerusalem. The power of the Lord was with him to heal them. 
LUK   5\v 17 On one of those days, he was teaching; and there were Pharisees and teachers of the law sitting by who had come out of every village of Galilee, Judea, and Jerusalem. The power of the Lord was with him to heal them. 
LUK   5\v 19 Not finding a way to bring him in because of the multitude, they went up to the housetop, and let him down through the tiles with his cot into the middle before Jesus. 
LUK   5\v 19 Not finding a way to bring him in because of the multitude, they went up to the housetop and let him down through the tiles with his cot into the middle before Jesus. 
LUK   5\v 23  \wj Which is easier to say, ‘Your sins are forgiven you;’ or to say, ‘Arise and walk?’ \wj* 
LUK   5\v 23  \wj Which is easier to say, ‘Your sins are forgiven you,’ or to say, ‘Arise and walk?’ \wj* 
LUK   5\v 27 After these things he went out, and saw a tax collector named Levi sitting at the tax office, and said to him, \wj “Follow me!”\wj* 
LUK   5\v 27 After these things he went out and saw a tax collector named Levi sitting at the tax office, and said to him, \wj “Follow me!”\wj* 
LUK   5\v 37  \wj No one puts new wine into old wine skins, or else the new wine will burst the skins, and it will be spilled, and the skins will be destroyed. \wj* 
LUK   5\v 37  \wj No one puts new wine into old wine skins, or else the new wine will burst the skins, and it will be spilled and the skins will be destroyed. \wj* 
LUK   6\v 3 Jesus, answering them, said, \wj “Haven’t you read what David did when he was hungry, he, and those who were with him; \wj* 
LUK   6\v 3 Jesus, answering them, said, \wj “Haven’t you read what David did when he was hungry, he and those who were with him, \wj* 
LUK   6\v 15 Matthew; Thomas; James, the son of Alphaeus; Simon, who was called the Zealot; 
LUK   6\v 15 Matthew; Thomas; James the son of Alphaeus; Simon who was called the Zealot; 
LUK   6\v 17 He came down with them, and stood on a level place, with a crowd of his disciples, and a great number of the people from all Judea and Jerusalem, and the sea coast of Tyre and Sidon, who came to hear him and to be healed of their diseases; 
LUK   6\v 17 He came down with them and stood on a level place, with a crowd of his disciples and a great number of the people from all Judea and Jerusalem and the sea coast of Tyre and Sidon, who came to hear him and to be healed of their diseases, 
LUK   6\v 23  \wj Rejoice in that day, and leap for joy, for behold, your reward is great in heaven, for their fathers did the same thing to the prophets.\wj* 
LUK   6\v 23  \wj Rejoice in that day and leap for joy, for behold, your reward is great in heaven, for their fathers did the same thing to the prophets.\wj* 
LUK   6\v 32  \wj If you love those who love you, what credit is that to you? For even sinners love those who love them. \wj* 
LUK   6\v 32  \wj “If you love those who love you, what credit is that to you? For even sinners love those who love them. \wj* 
LUK   6\v 48  \wj He is like a man building a house, who dug and went deep, and laid a foundation on the rock. When a flood arose, the stream broke against that house, and could not shake it, because it was founded on the rock. \wj* 
LUK   6\v 48  \wj He is like a man building a house, who dug and went deep and laid a foundation on the rock. When a flood arose, the stream broke against that house, and could not shake it, because it was founded on the rock. \wj* 
LUK   7\v 13 When the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her, and said to her, \wj “Don’t cry.”\wj* 
LUK   7\v 13 When the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her and said to her, \wj “Don’t cry.”\wj* 
LUK   7\v 15 He who was dead sat up, and began to speak. And he gave him to his mother. 
LUK   7\v 15 He who was dead sat up and began to speak. Then he gave him to his mother. 
LUK   7\v 17 This report went out concerning him in the whole of Judea, and in all the surrounding region. 
LUK   7\v 17 This report went out concerning him in the whole of Judea and in all the surrounding region. 
LUK   7\v 25  \wj But what did you go out to see? A man clothed in soft clothing? Behold, those who are gorgeously dressed, and live delicately, are in kings’ courts. \wj* 
LUK   7\v 25  \wj But what did you go out to see? A man clothed in soft clothing? Behold, those who are gorgeously dressed and live delicately are in kings’ courts. \wj* 
LUK   8\v 3 and Joanna, the wife of Chuzas, Herod’s steward; Susanna; and many others; who served them\f + \fr 8:3  \ft TR reads “him” instead of “them”\f* from their possessions. 
LUK   8\v 3 and Joanna, the wife of Chuzas, Herod’s steward; Susanna; and many others who served them\f + \fr 8:3  \ft TR reads “him” instead of “them”\f* from their possessions. 
LUK   8\v 7  \wj Other fell amid the thorns, and the thorns grew with it, and choked it. \wj* 
LUK   8\v 7  \wj Other fell amid the thorns, and the thorns grew with it and choked it. \wj* 
LUK   8\v 11  \wj Now the parable is this: The seed is the word of God. \wj* 
LUK   8\v 11  \wj “Now the parable is this: The seed is the word of God. \wj* 
LUK   8\v 13  \wj Those on the rock are they who, when they hear, receive the word with joy; but these have no root, who believe for a while, then fall away in time of temptation. \wj* 
LUK   8\v 13  \wj Those on the rock are they who, when they hear, receive the word with joy; but these have no root. They believe for a while, then fall away in time of temptation. \wj* 
LUK   8\v 17  \wj For nothing is hidden that will not be revealed; nor anything secret that will not be known and come to light. \wj* 
LUK   8\v 17  \wj For nothing is hidden that will not be revealed, nor anything secret that will not be known and come to light. \wj* 
LUK   8\v 21 But he answered them, \wj “My mother and my brothers are these who hear the word of God, and do it.”\wj* 
LUK   8\v 21 But he answered them, \wj “My mother and my brothers are these who hear the word of God and do it.”\wj* 
LUK   8\v 25 He said to them, \wj “Where is your faith?”\wj* Being afraid they marveled, saying to one another, “Who is this then, that he commands even the winds and the water, and they obey him?” 
LUK   8\v 25 He said to them, \wj “Where is your faith?”\wj* Being afraid, they marveled, saying to one another, “Who is this then, that he commands even the winds and the water, and they obey him?” 
LUK   8\v 29 For Jesus was commanding the unclean spirit to come out of the man. For the unclean spirit had often seized the man. He was kept under guard, and bound with chains and fetters. Breaking the bonds apart, he was driven by the demon into the desert. 
LUK   8\v 29 For Jesus was commanding the unclean spirit to come out of the man. For the unclean spirit had often seized the man. He was kept under guard and bound with chains and fetters. Breaking the bonds apart, he was driven by the demon into the desert. 
LUK   8\v 33 The demons came out of the man, and entered into the pigs, and the herd rushed down the steep bank into the lake, and were drowned. 
LUK   8\v 33 The demons came out of the man and entered into the pigs, and the herd rushed down the steep bank into the lake and were drowned. 
LUK   8\v 41 Behold, a man named Jairus came. He was a ruler of the synagogue. He fell down at Jesus’ feet, and begged him to come into his house, 
LUK   8\v 41 Behold, a man named Jairus came. He was a ruler of the synagogue. He fell down at Jesus’ feet and begged him to come into his house, 
LUK   8\v 43 A woman who had a flow of blood for twelve years, who had spent all her living on physicians and could not be healed by any 
LUK   8\v 43 A woman who had a flow of blood for twelve years, who had spent all her living on physicians and could not be healed by any, 
LUK   8\v 47 When the woman saw that she was not hidden, she came trembling, and falling down before him declared to him in the presence of all the people the reason why she had touched him, and how she was healed immediately. 
LUK   8\v 47 When the woman saw that she was not hidden, she came trembling; and falling down before him declared to him in the presence of all the people the reason why she had touched him, and how she was healed immediately. 
LUK   9\v 1 He called the twelve\f + \fr 9:1  \ft TR reads “his twelve disciples” instead of “the twelve”\f* together, and gave them power and authority over all demons, and to cure diseases. 
LUK   9\v 1 He called the twelve\f + \fr 9:1  \ft TR reads “his twelve disciples” instead of “the twelve”\f* together and gave them power and authority over all demons, and to cure diseases. 
LUK   9\v 3 He said to them, \wj “Take nothing for your journey—no staffs, nor wallet, nor bread, nor money. Don’t have two coats each. \wj* 
LUK   9\v 3 He said to them, \wj “Take nothing for your journey—no staffs, nor wallet, nor bread, nor money. Don’t have two tunics each. \wj* 
LUK   9\v 21 But he warned them, and commanded them to tell this to no one, 
LUK   9\v 21 But he warned them and commanded them to tell this to no one, 
LUK   9\v 31 who appeared in glory, and spoke of his departure,\f + \fr 9:31  \ft literally, “exodus”\f* which he was about to accomplish at Jerusalem. 
LUK   9\v 31 who appeared in glory and spoke of his departure,\f + \fr 9:31  \ft literally, “exodus”\f* which he was about to accomplish at Jerusalem. 
LUK   9\v 39 Behold, a spirit takes him, he suddenly cries out, and it convulses him so that he foams, and it hardly departs from him, bruising him severely. 
LUK   9\v 39 Behold, a spirit takes him, he suddenly cries out, and it convulses him so that he foams; and it hardly departs from him, bruising him severely. 
LUK  10\v 9  \wj Heal the sick who are there, and tell them, ‘God’s Kingdom has come near to you.’ \wj* 
LUK  10\v 9  \wj Heal the sick who are there and tell them, ‘God’s Kingdom has come near to you.’ \wj* 
LUK  10\v 21 In that same hour Jesus rejoiced in the Holy Spirit, and said, \wj “I thank you, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and understanding, and revealed them to little children. Yes, Father, for so it was well-pleasing in your sight.”\wj* 
LUK  10\v 21 In that same hour, Jesus rejoiced in the Holy Spirit, and said, \wj “I thank you, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and understanding, and revealed them to little children. Yes, Father, for so it was well-pleasing in your sight.”\wj* 
LUK  10\v 39 She had a sister called Mary, who also sat at Jesus’ feet, and heard his word. 
LUK  10\v 39 She had a sister called Mary, who also sat at Jesus’ feet and heard his word. 
LUK  11\v 5 He said to them, \wj “Which of you, if you go to a friend at midnight, and tell him, ‘Friend, lend me three loaves of bread, \wj* 
LUK  11\v 5 He said to them, \wj “Which of you, if you go to a friend at midnight and tell him, ‘Friend, lend me three loaves of bread, \wj* 
LUK  11\v 23  \wj “He that is not with me is against me. He who doesn’t gather with me scatters. \wj* 
LUK  11\v 23  \wj “He who is not with me is against me. He who doesn’t gather with me scatters.\wj* 
LUK  11\v 27 It came to pass, as he said these things, a certain woman out of the multitude lifted up her voice, and said to him, “Blessed is the womb that bore you, and the breasts which nursed you!” 
LUK  11\v 27 It came to pass, as he said these things, a certain woman out of the multitude lifted up her voice and said to him, “Blessed is the womb that bore you, and the breasts which nursed you!” 
LUK  11\v 29 When the multitudes were gathering together to him, he began to say, \wj “This is an evil generation. It seeks after a sign. No sign will be given to it but the sign of Jonah, the prophet. \wj* 
LUK  11\v 29 When the multitudes were gathering together to him, he began to say, \wj “This is an evil generation. It seeks after a sign. No sign will be given to it but the sign of Jonah the prophet. \wj* 
LUK  11\v 31  \wj The Queen of the South will rise up in the judgment with the men of this generation, and will condemn them: for she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and behold, one greater than Solomon is here. \wj* 
LUK  11\v 31  \wj The Queen of the South will rise up in the judgment with the men of this generation and will condemn them, for she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and behold, one greater than Solomon is here. \wj* 
LUK  11\v 43  \wj Woe to you Pharisees! For you love the best seats in the synagogues, and the greetings in the marketplaces. \wj* 
LUK  11\v 43  \wj Woe to you Pharisees! For you love the best seats in the synagogues and the greetings in the marketplaces. \wj* 
LUK  11\v 53 As he said these things to them, the scribes and the Pharisees began to be terribly angry, and to draw many things out of him; 
LUK  11\v 53 As he said these things to them, the scribes and the Pharisees began to be terribly angry, and to draw many things out of him, 
LUK  12\v 11  \wj When they bring you before the synagogues, the rulers, and the authorities, don’t be anxious how or what you will answer, or what you will say; \wj* 
LUK  12\v 11  \wj When they bring you before the synagogues, the rulers, and the authorities, don’t be anxious how or what you will answer or what you will say; \wj* 
LUK  12\v 29  \wj Don’t seek what you will eat or what you will drink; neither be anxious. \wj* 
LUK  12\v 29  \wj “Don’t seek what you will eat or what you will drink; neither be anxious. \wj* 
LUK  12\v 31  \wj But seek God’s Kingdom, and all these things will be added to you. \wj* 
LUK  12\v 31  \wj But seek God’s Kingdom, and all these things will be added to you.\wj* 
LUK  12\v 33  \wj Sell that which you have, and give gifts to the needy. Make for yourselves purses which don’t grow old, a treasure in the heavens that doesn’t fail, where no thief approaches, neither moth destroys. \wj* 
LUK  12\v 33  \wj Sell what you have and give gifts to the needy. Make for yourselves purses which don’t grow old, a treasure in the heavens that doesn’t fail, where no thief approaches and no moth destroys. \wj* 
LUK  12\v 39  \wj But know this, that if the master of the house had known in what hour the thief was coming, he would have watched, and not allowed his house to be broken into. \wj* 
LUK  12\v 39  \wj But know this, that if the master of the house had known in what hour the thief was coming, he would have watched and not allowed his house to be broken into. \wj* 
LUK  12\v 45  \wj But if that servant says in his heart, ‘My lord delays his coming,’ and begins to beat the menservants and the maidservants, and to eat and drink, and to be drunken, \wj* 
LUK  12\v 45  \wj But if that servant says in his heart, ‘My lord delays his coming,’ and begins to beat the menservants and the maidservants, and to eat and drink and to be drunken, \wj* 
LUK  12\v 47  \wj That servant, who knew his lord’s will, and didn’t prepare, nor do what he wanted, will be beaten with many stripes, \wj* 
LUK  12\v 47  \wj That servant who knew his lord’s will, and didn’t prepare nor do what he wanted, will be beaten with many stripes, \wj* 
LUK  12\v 57  \wj Why don’t you judge for yourselves what is right? \wj* 
LUK  12\v 57  \wj “Why don’t you judge for yourselves what is right? \wj* 
LUK  13\v 59  \wj I tell you, you will by no means get out of there, until you have paid the very last penny.\wj*\f + \fr 12:59  \ft literally, lepton. A lepton is a very small brass Jewish coin worth half a Roman quadrans each, which is worth a quarter of the copper assarion. Lepta are worth less than 1% of an agricultural worker’s daily wages.\f*\wj ”\wj* 
LUK  13\v 59  \wj I tell you, you will by no means get out of there until you have paid the very last penny.\wj*\f + \fr 12:59  \ft literally, lepton. A lepton is a very small brass Jewish coin worth half a Roman quadrans each, which is worth a quarter of the copper assarion. Lepta are worth less than 1% of an agricultural worker’s daily wages.\f*\wj ”\wj* 
LUK  13\v 1 Now there were some present at the same time who told him about the Galileans, whose blood Pilate had mixed with their sacrifices. 
LUK  13\v 1 Now there were some present at the same time who told him about the Galileans whose blood Pilate had mixed with their sacrifices. 
LUK  13\v 7  \wj He said to the vine dresser, ‘Behold, these three years I have come looking for fruit on this fig tree, and found none. Cut it down. Why does it waste the soil?’ \wj* 
LUK  13\v 7  \wj He said to the vine dresser, ‘Behold, these three years I have come looking for fruit on this fig tree, and found none. Cut it down! Why does it waste the soil?’ \wj* 
LUK  13\v 11 Behold, there was a woman who had a spirit of infirmity eighteen years. She was bent over, and could in no way straighten herself up. 
LUK  13\v 11 Behold, there was a woman who had a spirit of infirmity eighteen years. She was bent over and could in no way straighten herself up. 
LUK  13\v 15 Therefore the Lord answered him, \wj “You hypocrites! Doesn’t each one of you free his ox or his donkey from the stall on the Sabbath, and lead him away to water? \wj* 
LUK  13\v 15 Therefore the Lord answered him, \wj “You hypocrites! Doesn’t each one of you free his ox or his donkey from the stall on the Sabbath and lead him away to water? \wj* 
LUK  13\v 17 As he said these things, all his adversaries were disappointed and all the multitude rejoiced for all the glorious things that were done by him. 
LUK  13\v 17 As he said these things, all his adversaries were disappointed; and all the multitude rejoiced for all the glorious things that were done by him. 
LUK  13\v 25  \wj When once the master of the house has risen up, and has shut the door, and you begin to stand outside and to knock at the door, saying, ‘Lord, Lord, open to us!’ then he will answer and tell you, ‘I don’t know you or where you come from.’ \wj* 
LUK  13\v 25  \wj When once the master of the house has risen up and has shut the door, and you begin to stand outside and to knock at the door, saying, ‘Lord, Lord, open to us!’ then he will answer and tell you, ‘I don’t know you or where you come from.’ \wj* 
LUK  13\v 31 On that same day, some Pharisees came, saying to him, “Get out of here, and go away, for Herod wants to kill you.” 
LUK  13\v 31 On that same day, some Pharisees came, saying to him, “Get out of here and go away, for Herod wants to kill you.” 
LUK  14\v 27  \wj Whoever doesn’t bear his own cross, and come after me, can’t be my disciple. \wj* 
LUK  14\v 27  \wj Whoever doesn’t bear his own cross and come after me, can’t be my disciple. \wj* 
LUK  14\v 29  \wj Or perhaps, when he has laid a foundation, and is not able to finish, everyone who sees begins to mock him, \wj* 
LUK  14\v 29  \wj Or perhaps, when he has laid a foundation and isn’t able to finish, everyone who sees begins to mock him, \wj* 
LUK  14\v 33  \wj So therefore whoever of you who doesn’t renounce all that he has, he can’t be my disciple. \wj* 
LUK  14\v 33  \wj So therefore, whoever of you who doesn’t renounce all that he has, he can’t be my disciple.\wj* 
LUK  15\v 3 He told them this parable. 
LUK  15\v 3 He told them this parable: 
LUK  15\v 9  \wj When she has found it, she calls together her friends and neighbors, saying, ‘Rejoice with me, for I have found the drachma which I had lost.’ \wj* 
LUK  15\v 9  \wj When she has found it, she calls together her friends and neighbors, saying, ‘Rejoice with me, for I have found the drachma which I had lost!’ \wj* 
LUK  15\v 17  \wj But when he came to himself he said, ‘How many hired servants of my father’s have bread enough to spare, and I’m dying with hunger! \wj* 
LUK  15\v 17  \wj But when he came to himself, he said, ‘How many hired servants of my father’s have bread enough to spare, and I’m dying with hunger! \wj* 
LUK  15\v 23  \wj Bring the fattened calf, kill it, and let’s eat, and celebrate; \wj* 
LUK  15\v 23  \wj Bring the fattened calf, kill it, and let’s eat and celebrate; \wj* 
LUK  16\v 13  \wj No servant can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to one, and despise the other. You aren’t able to serve God and Mammon.”\wj*\f + \fr 16:13  \ft “Mammon” refers to riches or a false god of wealth.\f* 
LUK  16\v 13  \wj No servant can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other; or else he will hold to one and despise the other. You aren’t able to serve God and Mammon.”\wj*\f + \fr 16:13  \ft “Mammon” refers to riches or a false god of wealth.\f* 
LUK  16\v 25  \wj “But Abraham said, ‘Son, remember that you, in your lifetime, received your good things, and Lazarus, in the same way, bad things. But here he is now comforted, and you are in anguish. \wj* 
LUK  16\v 25  \wj “But Abraham said, ‘Son, remember that you, in your lifetime, received your good things, and Lazarus, in the same way, bad things. But here he is now comforted and you are in anguish. \wj* 
LUK  16\v 27  \wj “He said, ‘I ask you therefore, father, that you would send him to my father’s house; \wj* 
LUK  16\v 27  \wj “He said, ‘I ask you therefore, father, that you would send him to my father’s house— \wj* 
LUK  17\v 7  \wj But who is there among you, having a servant plowing or keeping sheep, that will say when he comes in from the field, ‘Come immediately and sit down at the table,’ \wj* 
LUK  17\v 7  \wj But who is there among you, having a servant plowing or keeping sheep, that will say when he comes in from the field, ‘Come immediately and sit down at the table’? \wj* 
LUK  18\v 1 He also spoke a parable to them that they must always pray, and not give up, 
LUK  18\v 1 He also spoke a parable to them that they must always pray and not give up, 
LUK  18\v 9 He also spoke this parable to certain people who were convinced of their own righteousness, and who despised all others. 
LUK  18\v 9 He also spoke this parable to certain people who were convinced of their own righteousness, and who despised all others: 
LUK  18\v 11  \wj The Pharisee stood and prayed to himself like this: ‘God, I thank you that I am not like the rest of men, extortionists, unrighteous, adulterers, or even like this tax collector. \wj* 
LUK  18\v 11  \wj The Pharisee stood and prayed by himself like this: ‘God, I thank you that I am not like the rest of men: extortionists, unrighteous, adulterers, or even like this tax collector. \wj* 
LUK  18\v 31 He took the twelve aside, and said to them, \wj “Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and all the things that are written through the prophets concerning the Son of Man will be completed. \wj* 
LUK  18\v 31 He took the twelve aside and said to them, \wj “Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and all the things that are written through the prophets concerning the Son of Man will be completed. \wj* 
LUK  19\v 35 Then they brought it to Jesus. They threw their cloaks on the colt, and sat Jesus on them. 
LUK  19\v 35 Then they brought it to Jesus. They threw their cloaks on the colt and sat Jesus on them. 
LUK  19\v 43  \wj For the days will come on you, when your enemies will throw up a barricade against you, surround you, hem you in on every side, \wj* 
LUK  19\v 43  \wj For the days will come on you when your enemies will throw up a barricade against you, surround you, hem you in on every side, \wj* 
LUK  19\v 45 He entered into the temple, and began to drive out those who bought and sold in it, 
LUK  19\v 45 He entered into the temple and began to drive out those who bought and sold in it, 
LUK  20\v 1 On one of those days, as he was teaching the people in the temple and preaching the Good News, the\f + \fr 20:1  \ft TR adds “chief”\f*priests and scribes came to him with the elders. 
LUK  20\v 1 On one of those days, as he was teaching the people in the temple and preaching the Good News, the\f + \fr 20:1  \ft TR adds “chief”\f* priests and scribes came to him with the elders. 
LUK  20\v 9 He began to tell the people this parable. \wj “A \wj*\f + \fr 20:9  \ft NU (in brackets) and TR add “certain”\f* \wj man planted a vineyard, and rented it out to some farmers, and went into another country for a long time. \wj* 
LUK  20\v 9 He began to tell the people this parable: \wj “A \wj*\f + \fr 20:9  \ft NU (in brackets) and TR add “certain”\f* \wj man planted a vineyard and rented it out to some farmers, and went into another country for a long time. \wj* 
LUK  20\v 11  \wj He sent yet another servant, and they also beat him, and treated him shamefully, and sent him away empty. \wj* 
LUK  20\v 11  \wj He sent yet another servant, and they also beat him and treated him shamefully, and sent him away empty. \wj* 
LUK  21\v 47  \wj who devour widows’ houses, and for a pretense make long prayers: these will receive greater condemnation.”\wj* 
LUK  21\v 47  \wj who devour widows’ houses, and for a pretense make long prayers. These will receive greater condemnation.”\wj* 
LUK  21\v 23  \wj Woe to those who are pregnant and to those who nurse infants in those days! For there will be great distress in the land, and wrath to this people. \wj* 
LUK  21\v 23  \wj Woe to those who are pregnant and to those who nurse infants in those days! For there will be great distress in the land and wrath to this people. \wj* 
LUK  21\v 25  \wj There will be signs in the sun, moon, and stars; and on the earth anxiety of nations, in perplexity for the roaring of the sea and the waves; \wj* 
LUK  21\v 25  \wj “There will be signs in the sun, moon, and stars; and on the earth anxiety of nations, in perplexity for the roaring of the sea and the waves; \wj* 
LUK  22\v 17 He received a cup, and when he had given thanks, he said, \wj “Take this, and share it among yourselves, \wj* 
LUK  22\v 17 He received a cup, and when he had given thanks, he said, \wj “Take this and share it among yourselves, \wj* 
LUK  22\v 19 He took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke, and gave it to them, saying, \wj “This is my body which is given for you. Do this in memory of me.”\wj* 
LUK  22\v 19 He took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke and gave it to them, saying, \wj “This is my body which is given for you. Do this in memory of me.”\wj* 
LUK  22\v 23 They began to question among themselves, which of them it was who would do this thing. 
LUK  22\v 23 They began to question among themselves which of them it was who would do this thing. 
LUK  22\v 35 He said to them, \wj “When I sent you out without purse, wallet, and sandals, did you lack anything?”\wj* 
LUK  22\v 35 He said to them, \wj “When I sent you out without purse, bag, and sandals, did you lack anything?”\wj* 
LUK  22\v 37  \wj For I tell you that this which is written must still be fulfilled in me: ‘He was counted with transgressors.’\wj*\x + \xo 22:37  \xt Isaiah 53:12\x* \wj For that which concerns me has an end.”\wj* 
LUK  22\v 37  \wj For I tell you that this which is written must still be fulfilled in me: ‘He was counted with transgressors.’\wj*\x + \xo 22:37  \xt Isaiah 53:12\x* \wj For that which concerns me is being fulfilled.”\wj* 
LUK  22\v 45 When he rose up from his prayer, he came to the disciples, and found them sleeping because of grief, 
LUK  22\v 45 When he rose up from his prayer, he came to the disciples and found them sleeping because of grief, 
LUK  22\v 51 But Jesus answered, \wj “Let me at least do this”\wj*—and he touched his ear, and healed him. 
LUK  22\v 51 But Jesus answered, \wj “Let me at least do this”\wj*—and he touched his ear and healed him. 
LUK  22\v 55 When they had kindled a fire in the middle of the courtyard, and had sat down together, Peter sat among them. 
LUK  22\v 55 When they had kindled a fire in the middle of the courtyard and had sat down together, Peter sat among them. 
LUK  23\v 51 (he had not consented to their counsel and deed), from Arimathaea, a city of the Jews, who was also waiting for God’s Kingdom: 
LUK  23\v 51 (he had not consented to their counsel and deed), from Arimathaea, a city of the Jews, who was also waiting for God’s Kingdom. 
LUK  23\v 53 He took it down, and wrapped it in a linen cloth, and laid him in a tomb that was cut in stone, where no one had ever been laid. 
LUK  23\v 53 He took it down and wrapped it in a linen cloth, and laid him in a tomb that was cut in stone, where no one had ever been laid. 
LUK  23\v 55 The women, who had come with him out of Galilee, followed after, and saw the tomb, and how his body was laid. 
LUK  23\v 55 The women who had come with him out of Galilee followed after, and saw the tomb and how his body was laid. 
LUK  24\v 25 He said to them, \wj “Foolish men, and slow of heart to believe in all that the prophets have spoken! \wj* 
LUK  24\v 25 He said to them, \wj “Foolish people, and slow of heart to believe in all that the prophets have spoken! \wj* 
LUK  24\v 31 Their eyes were opened and they recognized him, then he vanished out of their sight. 
LUK  24\v 31 Their eyes were opened and they recognized him; then he vanished out of their sight. 
LUK  24\v 51 While he blessed them, he withdrew from them, and was carried up into heaven. 
LUK  24\v 51 While he blessed them, he withdrew from them and was carried up into heaven. 
JOH   1\v 13 who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. 
JOH   1\v 13 who were born, not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. 
JOH   1\v 17 For the law was given through Moses. Grace and truth were realized through Jesus Christ. 
JOH   1\v 17 For the law was given through Moses. Grace and truth were realized through Jesus Christ.\f + \fr 1:17  \ft “Christ” means “Anointed One”.\f* 
JOH   1\v 25 They asked him, “Why then do you baptize, if you are not the Christ, nor Elijah, nor the prophet?” 
JOH   1\v 25 They asked him, “Why then do you baptize if you are not the Christ, nor Elijah, nor the prophet?” 
JOH   1\v 31 I didn’t know him, but for this reason I came baptizing in water: that he would be revealed to Israel.” 
JOH   1\v 31 I didn’t know him, but for this reason I came baptizing in water, that he would be revealed to Israel.” 
JOH   1\v 39 He said to them, \wj “Come, and see.”\wj* 
JOH   1\v 39 He said to them, \wj “Come and see.”\wj* 
JOH   1\v 45 Philip found Nathanael, and said to him, “We have found him, of whom Moses in the law, and the prophets, wrote: Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph.” 
JOH   1\v 45 Philip found Nathanael, and said to him, “We have found him of whom Moses in the law and also the prophets, wrote: Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph.” 
JOH   2\v 15 He made a whip of cords, and threw all out of the temple, both the sheep and the oxen; and he poured out the changers’ money and overthrew their tables. 
JOH   2\v 15 He made a whip of cords and drove all out of the temple, both the sheep and the oxen; and he poured out the changers’ money and overthrew their tables. 
JOH   3\v 3 Jesus answered him, \wj “Most certainly, I tell you, unless one is born anew, \wj*\f + \fr 3:3  \ft The word translated “anew” here and in John 3:7 (ἄνωθεν) also means “again” and “from above”.\f* \wj he can’t see God’s Kingdom.”\wj* 
JOH   3\v 3 Jesus answered him, \wj “Most certainly I tell you, unless one is born anew, \wj*\f + \fr 3:3  \ft The word translated “anew” here and in John 3:7 (ἄνωθεν) also means “again” and “from above”.\f* \wj he can’t see God’s Kingdom.”\wj* 
JOH   3\v 5 Jesus answered, \wj “Most certainly I tell you, unless one is born of water and spirit, he can’t enter into God’s Kingdom.\wj* 
JOH   3\v 5 Jesus answered, \wj “Most certainly I tell you, unless one is born of water and Spirit, he can’t enter into God’s Kingdom.\wj* 
JOH   3\v 11  \wj Most certainly I tell you, we speak that which we know, and testify of that which we have seen, and you don’t receive our witness. \wj* 
JOH   3\v 11  \wj Most certainly I tell you, we speak that which we know and testify of that which we have seen, and you don’t receive our witness. \wj* 
JOH   3\v 19  \wj This is the judgment, that the light has come into the world, and men loved the darkness rather than the light; for their works were evil. \wj* 
JOH   3\v 19  \wj This is the judgment, that the light has come into the world, and men loved the darkness rather than the light, for their works were evil. \wj* 
JOH   3\v 23 John also was baptizing in Enon near Salim, because there was much water there. They came, and were baptized; 
JOH   3\v 23 John also was baptizing in Enon near Salim, because there was much water there. They came and were baptized; 
JOH   3\v 29 He who has the bride is the bridegroom; but the friend of the bridegroom, who stands and hears him, rejoices greatly because of the bridegroom’s voice. This, my joy, therefore is made full. 
JOH   3\v 29 He who has the bride is the bridegroom; but the friend of the bridegroom, who stands and hears him, rejoices greatly because of the bridegroom’s voice. Therefore my joy is made full. 
JOH   3\v 31 He who comes from above is above all. He who is from the earth belongs to the earth and speaks of the earth. He who comes from heaven is above all. 
JOH   3\v 31 “He who comes from above is above all. He who is from the earth belongs to the earth and speaks of the earth. He who comes from heaven is above all. 
JOH   4\v 5 So he came to a city of Samaria, called Sychar, near the parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son, Joseph. 
JOH   4\v 5 So he came to a city of Samaria called Sychar, near the parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph. 
JOH   4\v 21 Jesus said to her, \wj “Woman, believe me, the hour comes, when neither in this mountain, nor in Jerusalem, will you worship the Father. \wj* 
JOH   4\v 21 Jesus said to her, \wj “Woman, believe me, the hour is coming when neither in this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father. \wj* 
JOH   4\v 25 The woman said to him, “I know that Messiah comes, he who is called Christ. When he has come, he will declare to us all things.” 
JOH   4\v 25 The woman said to him, “I know that Messiah is coming, he who is called Christ.\f + \fr 4:25  \ft “Messiah” (Hebrew) and “Christ” (Greek) both mean “Anointed One”.\f* When he has come, he will declare to us all things.” 
JOH   4\v 27 At this, his disciples came. They marveled that he was speaking with a woman; yet no one said, “What are you looking for?” or, “Why do you speak with her?” 
JOH   4\v 27 Just then, his disciples came. They marveled that he was speaking with a woman; yet no one said, “What are you looking for?” or, “Why do you speak with her?” 
JOH   4\v 29 “Come, see a man who told me everything that I did. Can this be the Christ?” 
JOH   4\v 29 “Come, see a man who told me everything that I have done. Can this be the Christ?” 
JOH   4\v 39 From that city many of the Samaritans believed in him because of the word of the woman, who testified, “He told me everything that I did.” 
JOH   4\v 39 From that city many of the Samaritans believed in him because of the word of the woman, who testified, “He told me everything that I have done.” 
JOH   4\v 47 When he heard that Jesus had come out of Judea into Galilee, he went to him, and begged him that he would come down and heal his son, for he was at the point of death. 
JOH   4\v 47 When he heard that Jesus had come out of Judea into Galilee, he went to him and begged him that he would come down and heal his son, for he was at the point of death. 
JOH   4\v 51 As he was now going down, his servants met him and reported, saying “Your child lives!” 
JOH   4\v 51 As he was going down, his servants met him and reported, saying “Your child lives!” 
JOH   6\v 5 Jesus therefore lifting up his eyes, and seeing that a great multitude was coming to him, said to Philip, \wj “Where are we to buy bread, that these may eat?”\wj* 
JOH   6\v 5 Jesus therefore, lifting up his eyes and seeing that a great multitude was coming to him, said to Philip, \wj “Where are we to buy bread, that these may eat?”\wj* 
JOH   6\v 11 Jesus took the loaves; and having given thanks, he distributed to the disciples, and the disciples to those who were sitting down; likewise also of the fish as much as they desired. 
JOH   6\v 11 Jesus took the loaves, and having given thanks, he distributed to the disciples, and the disciples to those who were sitting down, likewise also of the fish as much as they desired. 
JOH   6\v 19 When therefore they had rowed about twenty-five or thirty stadia,\f + \fr 6:19  \ft 25 to 30 stadia is about 5 to 6 kilometers or about 3 to 4 miles\f* they saw Jesus walking on the sea,\x + \xo 6:19  \xt See Job 9:8\x* and drawing near to the boat; and they were afraid. 
JOH   6\v 19 When therefore they had rowed about twenty-five or thirty stadia,\f + \fr 6:19  \ft 25 to 30 stadia is about 5 to 6 kilometers or about 3 to 4 miles\f* they saw Jesus walking on the sea\x + \xo 6:19  \xt See Job 9:8\x* and drawing near to the boat; and they were afraid. 
JOH   6\v 23 However boats from Tiberias came near to the place where they ate the bread after the Lord had given thanks. 
JOH   6\v 23 However, boats from Tiberias came near to the place where they ate the bread after the Lord had given thanks. 
JOH   6\v 33  \wj For the bread of God is that which comes down out of heaven, and gives life to the world.”\wj* 
JOH   6\v 33  \wj For the bread of God is that which comes down out of heaven and gives life to the world.”\wj* 
JOH   6\v 57  \wj As the living Father sent me, and I live because of the Father; so he who feeds on me, he will also live because of me. \wj* 
JOH   6\v 57  \wj As the living Father sent me, and I live because of the Father, so he who feeds on me will also live because of me. \wj* 
JOH   7\v 17  \wj If anyone desires to do his will, he will know about the teaching, whether it is from God, or if I am speaking from myself. \wj* 
JOH   7\v 17  \wj If anyone desires to do his will, he will know about the teaching, whether it is from God or if I am speaking from myself. \wj* 
JOH   7\v 23  \wj If a boy receives circumcision on the Sabbath, that the law of Moses may not be broken, are you angry with me, because I made a man completely healthy on the Sabbath? \wj* 
JOH   7\v 23  \wj If a boy receives circumcision on the Sabbath, that the law of Moses may not be broken, are you angry with me because I made a man completely healthy on the Sabbath? \wj* 
JOH   7\v 27 However we know where this man comes from, but when the Christ comes, no one will know where he comes from.” 
JOH   7\v 27 However, we know where this man comes from, but when the Christ comes, no one will know where he comes from.” 
JOH   7\v 35 The Jews therefore said among themselves, “Where will this man go that we won’t find him? Will he go to the Dispersion among the Greeks, and teach the Greeks? 
JOH   7\v 35 The Jews therefore said among themselves, “Where will this man go that we won’t find him? Will he go to the Dispersion among the Greeks and teach the Greeks? 
JOH   7\v 45 The officers therefore came to the chief priests and Pharisees, and they said to them, “Why didn’t you bring him?” 
JOH   7\v 45 The officers therefore came to the chief priests and Pharisees; and they said to them, “Why didn’t you bring him?” 
JOH   7\v 51 “Does our law judge a man, unless it first hears from him personally and knows what he does?” 
JOH   7\v 51 “Does our law judge a man unless it first hears from him personally and knows what he does?” 
JOH   8\v 53 Are you greater than our father, Abraham, who died? The prophets died. Who do you make yourself out to be?” 
JOH   8\v 53 Are you greater than our father Abraham, who died? The prophets died. Who do you make yourself out to be?” 
JOH   9\v 59 Therefore they took up stones to throw at him, but Jesus was hidden, and went out of the temple, having gone through the middle of them, and so passed by. 
JOH   9\v 59 Therefore they took up stones to throw at him, but Jesus was hid himself and went out of the temple, having gone through the middle of them, and so passed by. 
JOH   9\v 3 Jesus answered, \wj “This man didn’t sin, nor did his parents; but, that the works of God might be revealed in him. \wj* 
JOH   9\v 3 Jesus answered, \wj “This man didn’t sin, nor did his parents, but that the works of God might be revealed in him. \wj* 
JOH   9\v 31 We know that God doesn’t listen to sinners, but if anyone is a worshiper of God, and does his will, he listens to him.\x + \xo 9:31  \xt Psalm 66:18; Proverbs 15:29; 28:9\x* 
JOH   9\v 31 We know that God doesn’t listen to sinners, but if anyone is a worshiper of God and does his will, he listens to him.\x + \xo 9:31  \xt Psalm 66:18; Proverbs 15:29; 28:9\x* 
JOH  10\v 3  \wj The gatekeeper opens the gate for him, and the sheep listen to his voice. He calls his own sheep by name, and leads them out. \wj* 
JOH  10\v 3  \wj The gatekeeper opens the gate for him, and the sheep listen to his voice. He calls his own sheep by name and leads them out. \wj* 
JOH  10\v 9  \wj I am the door. If anyone enters in by me, he will be saved, and will go in and go out, and will find pasture. \wj* 
JOH  10\v 9  \wj I am the door. If anyone enters in by me, he will be saved, and will go in and go out and will find pasture. \wj* 
JOH  10\v 11  \wj I am the good shepherd.\wj*\x + \xo 10:11  \xt Isaiah 40:11; Ezekiel 34:11-12,15,22\x* \wj The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. \wj* 
JOH  10\v 11  \wj “I am the good shepherd.\wj*\x + \xo 10:11  \xt Isaiah 40:11; Ezekiel 34:11-12,15,22\x* \wj The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. \wj* 
JOH  10\v 13  \wj The hired hand flees because he is a hired hand, and doesn’t care for the sheep. \wj* 
JOH  10\v 13  \wj The hired hand flees because he is a hired hand and doesn’t care for the sheep. \wj* 
JOH  10\v 33 The Jews answered him, “We don’t stone you for a good work, but for blasphemy: because you, being a man, make yourself God.” 
JOH  10\v 33 The Jews answered him, “We don’t stone you for a good work, but for blasphemy, because you, being a man, make yourself God.” 
JOH  11\v 11 He said these things, and after that, he said to them, \wj “Our friend, Lazarus, has fallen asleep, but I am going so that I may awake him out of sleep.”\wj* 
JOH  11\v 11 He said these things, and after that, he said to them, \wj “Our friend Lazarus, has fallen asleep, but I am going so that I may awake him out of sleep.”\wj* 
JOH  11\v 33 When Jesus therefore saw her weeping, and the Jews weeping who came with her, he groaned in the spirit, and was troubled, 
JOH  11\v 33 When Jesus therefore saw her weeping, and the Jews weeping who came with her, he groaned in the spirit and was troubled, 
JOH  11\v 41 So they took away the stone from the place where the dead man was lying.\f + \fr 11:41  \ft NU omits “from the place where the dead man was lying.”\f* Jesus lifted up his eyes, and said, \wj “Father, I thank you that you listened to me. \wj* 
JOH  11\v 41 So they took away the stone from the place where the dead man was lying.\f + \fr 11:41  \ft NU omits “from the place where the dead man was lying.”\f* Jesus lifted up his eyes and said, \wj “Father, I thank you that you listened to me. \wj* 
JOH  12\v 1 Then six days before the Passover, Jesus came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, who had been dead, whom he raised from the dead. 
JOH  12\v 1 Then, six days before the Passover, Jesus came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, who had been dead, whom he raised from the dead. 
JOH  12\v 5 “Why wasn’t this ointment sold for three hundred denarii,\f + \fr 12:5  \ft 300 denarii was about a year’s wages for an agricultural laborer.\f* and given to the poor?” 
JOH  12\v 5 “Why wasn’t this ointment sold for three hundred denarii\f + \fr 12:5  \ft 300 denarii was about a year’s wages for an agricultural laborer.\f* and given to the poor?” 
JOH  12\v 9 A large crowd therefore of the Jews learned that he was there, and they came, not for Jesus’ sake only, but that they might see Lazarus also, whom he had raised from the dead. 
JOH  12\v 9 A large crowd therefore of the Jews learned that he was there; and they came, not for Jesus’ sake only, but that they might see Lazarus also, whom he had raised from the dead. 
JOH  12\v 21 These, therefore, came to Philip, who was from Bethsaida of Galilee, and asked him, saying, “Sir, we want to see Jesus.” 
JOH  12\v 21 Therefore, these came to Philip, who was from Bethsaida of Galilee, and asked him, saying, “Sir, we want to see Jesus.” 
JOH  12\v 39 For this cause they couldn’t believe, for Isaiah said again, 
JOH  12\v 39 For this cause they couldn’t believe, for Isaiah said again: 
JOH  12\v 47  \wj If anyone listens to my sayings, and doesn’t believe, I don’t judge him. For I came not to judge the world, but to save the world. \wj* 
JOH  12\v 47  \wj If anyone listens to my sayings and doesn’t believe, I don’t judge him. For I came not to judge the world, but to save the world. \wj* 
JOH  12\v 49  \wj For I spoke not from myself, but the Father who sent me, he gave me a commandment, what I should say, and what I should speak. \wj* 
JOH  12\v 49  \wj For I spoke not from myself, but the Father who sent me gave me a commandment, what I should say and what I should speak. \wj* 
JOH  13\v 3 Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he came from God, and was going to God, 
JOH  13\v 3 Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he came from God and was going to God, 
JOH  13\v 11 For he knew him who would betray him, therefore he said, \wj “You are not all clean.”\wj* 
JOH  13\v 11 For he knew him who would betray him; therefore he said, \wj “You are not all clean.”\wj* 
JOH  14\v 3  \wj If I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and will receive you to myself; that where I am, you may be there also. \wj* 
JOH  14\v 3  \wj If I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will receive you to myself; that where I am, you may be there also. \wj* 
JOH  14\v 7  \wj If you had known me, you would have known my Father also. From now on, you know him, and have seen him.”\wj* 
JOH  14\v 7  \wj If you had known me, you would have known my Father also. From now on, you know him and have seen him.”\wj* 
JOH  14\v 17  \wj the Spirit of truth, whom the world can’t receive; for it doesn’t see him and doesn’t know him. You know him, for he lives with you, and will be in you. \wj* 
JOH  14\v 17  \wj the Spirit of truth, whom the world can’t receive, for it doesn’t see him and doesn’t know him. You know him, for he lives with you and will be in you. \wj* 
JOH  14\v 23 Jesus answered him, \wj “If a man loves me, he will keep my word. My Father will love him, and we will come to him, and make our home with him. \wj* 
JOH  14\v 23 Jesus answered him, \wj “If a man loves me, he will keep my word. My Father will love him, and we will come to him and make our home with him. \wj* 
JOH  14\v 25  \wj I have said these things to you while still living with you. \wj* 
JOH  14\v 25  \wj “I have said these things to you while still living with you. \wj* 
JOH  16\v 3  \wj They will do these things\wj*\f + \fr 16:3  \ft TR adds “to you”\f* \wj because they have not known the Father, nor me. \wj* 
JOH  16\v 3  \wj They will do these things\wj*\f + \fr 16:3  \ft TR adds “to you”\f* \wj because they have not known the Father nor me. \wj* 
JOH  16\v 7  \wj Nevertheless I tell you the truth: It is to your advantage that I go away, for if I don’t go away, the Counselor won’t come to you. But if I go, I will send him to you. \wj* 
JOH  16\v 7  \wj Nevertheless I tell you the truth: It is to your advantage that I go away; for if I don’t go away, the Counselor won’t come to you. But if I go, I will send him to you. \wj* 
JOH  16\v 13  \wj However when he, the Spirit of truth, has come, he will guide you into all truth, for he will not speak from himself; but whatever he hears, he will speak. He will declare to you things that are coming. \wj* 
JOH  16\v 13  \wj However, when he, the Spirit of truth, has come, he will guide you into all truth, for he will not speak from himself; but whatever he hears, he will speak. He will declare to you things that are coming. \wj* 
JOH  16\v 25  \wj I have spoken these things to you in figures of speech. But the time is coming when I will no more speak to you in figures of speech, but will tell you plainly about the Father. \wj* 
JOH  16\v 25  \wj “I have spoken these things to you in figures of speech. But the time is coming when I will no more speak to you in figures of speech, but will tell you plainly about the Father. \wj* 
JOH  17\v 23  \wj I in them, and you in me, that they may be perfected into one; that the world may know that you sent me and loved them, even as you loved me. \wj* 
JOH  17\v 23  \wj I in them, and you in me, that they may be perfected into one, that the world may know that you sent me and loved them, even as you loved me. \wj* 
JOH  18\v 29 Pilate therefore went out to them, and said, “What accusation do you bring against this man?” 
JOH  18\v 29 Pilate therefore went out to them and said, “What accusation do you bring against this man?” 
JOH  18\v 39 But you have a custom, that I should release someone to you at the Passover. Therefore, do you want me to release to you the King of the Jews?” 
JOH  18\v 39 But you have a custom that I should release someone to you at the Passover. Therefore, do you want me to release to you the King of the Jews?” 
JOH  19\v 1 So Pilate then took Jesus, and flogged him. 
JOH  19\v 1 So Pilate then took Jesus and flogged him. 
JOH  19\v 23 Then the soldiers, when they had crucified Jesus, took his garments and made four parts, to every soldier a part; and also the coat. Now the coat was without seam, woven from the top throughout. 
JOH  19\v 23 Then the soldiers, when they had crucified Jesus, took his garments and made four parts, to every soldier a part; and also the tunic. Now the tunic was without seam, woven from the top throughout. 
JOH  19\v 31 Therefore the Jews, because it was the Preparation Day, so that the bodies wouldn’t remain on the cross on the Sabbath (for that Sabbath was a special one), asked of Pilate that their legs might be broken, and that they might be taken away. 
JOH  19\v 31 Therefore the Jews, because it was the Preparation Day, so that the bodies wouldn’t remain on the cross on the Sabbath (for that Sabbath was a special one), asked of Pilate that their legs might be broken and that they might be taken away. 
JOH  19\v 33 but when they came to Jesus, and saw that he was already dead, they didn’t break his legs. 
JOH  19\v 33 but when they came to Jesus and saw that he was already dead, they didn’t break his legs. 
JOH  20\v 1 Now on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene went early, while it was still dark, to the tomb, and saw the stone taken away from the tomb. 
JOH  20\v 1 Now on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene went early, while it was still dark, to the tomb, and saw that the stone had been taken away from the tomb. 
JOH  20\v 5 Stooping and looking in, he saw the linen cloths lying, yet he didn’t enter in. 
JOH  20\v 5 Stooping and looking in, he saw the linen cloths lying there; yet he didn’t enter in. 
JOH  20\v 19 When therefore it was evening on that day, the first day of the week, and when the doors were locked where the disciples were assembled, for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in the middle, and said to them, \wj “Peace be to you.”\wj* 
JOH  20\v 19 When therefore it was evening on that day, the first day of the week, and when the doors were locked where the disciples were assembled, for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in the middle and said to them, \wj “Peace be to you.”\wj* 
JOH  20\v 29 Jesus said to him, \wj “Because you have seen me,\wj*\f + \fr 20:29  \ft TR adds “Thomas,”\f* \wj you have believed. Blessed are those who have not seen, and have believed.”\wj* 
JOH  20\v 29 Jesus said to him, \wj “Because you have seen me,\wj*\f + \fr 20:29  \ft TR adds “Thomas,”\f* \wj you have believed. Blessed are those who have not seen and have believed.”\wj* 
JOH  21\v 31 but these are written, that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you may have life in his name. 
JOH  21\v 31 but these are written that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you may have life in his name. 
JOH  21\v 21 Peter seeing him, said to Jesus, “Lord, what about this man?” 
JOH  21\v 21 Peter, seeing him, said to Jesus, “Lord, what about this man?” 
JOH  21\v 23 This saying therefore went out among the brothers,\f + \fr 21:23  \ft The word for “brothers” here may be also correctly translated “brothers and sisters” or “siblings.”\f* that this disciple wouldn’t die. Yet Jesus didn’t say to him that he wouldn’t die, but, \wj “If I desire that he stay until I come, what is that to you?”\wj* 
JOH  21\v 23 This saying therefore went out among the brothers\f + \fr 21:23  \ft The word for “brothers” here may be also correctly translated “brothers and sisters” or “siblings.”\f* that this disciple wouldn’t die. Yet Jesus didn’t say to him that he wouldn’t die, but, \wj “If I desire that he stay until I come, what is that to you?”\wj* 
ACT   1\v 3 To these he also showed himself alive after he suffered, by many proofs, appearing to them over a period of forty days, and speaking about God’s Kingdom. 
ACT   1\v 3 To these he also showed himself alive after he suffered, by many proofs, appearing to them over a period of forty days and speaking about God’s Kingdom. 
ACT   1\v 13 When they had come in, they went up into the upper room where they were staying; that is Peter, John, James, Andrew, Philip, Thomas, Bartholomew, Matthew, James the son of Alphaeus, Simon the Zealot, and Judas the son of James. 
ACT   1\v 13 When they had come in, they went up into the upper room where they were staying, that is Peter, John, James, Andrew, Philip, Thomas, Bartholomew, Matthew, James the son of Alphaeus, Simon the Zealot, and Judas the son of James. 
ACT   1\v 23 They put forward two, Joseph called Barsabbas, who was also called Justus, and Matthias. 
ACT   1\v 23 They put forward two: Joseph called Barsabbas, who was also called Justus, and Matthias. 
ACT   2\v 11 Cretans and Arabians: we hear them speaking in our languages the mighty works of God!” 
ACT   2\v 11 Cretans and Arabians—we hear them speaking in our languages the mighty works of God!” 
ACT   2\v 31 he foreseeing this spoke about the resurrection of the Christ, that his soul wasn’t left in Hades,\f + \fr 2:31  \ft or, Hell\f* and his flesh didn’t see decay. 
ACT   2\v 31 he foreseeing this, spoke about the resurrection of the Christ, that his soul wasn’t left in Hades,\f + \fr 2:31  \ft or, Hell\f* and his flesh didn’t see decay. 
ACT   2\v 33 Being therefore exalted by the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he has poured out this, which you now see and hear. 
ACT   2\v 33 Being therefore exalted by the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he has poured out this which you now see and hear. 
ACT   2\v 39 For the promise is to you, and to your children, and to all who are far off, even as many as the Lord our God will call to himself.” 
ACT   2\v 39 For the promise is to you and to your children, and to all who are far off, even as many as the Lord our God will call to himself.” 
ACT   3\v 47 praising God, and having favor with all the people. The Lord added to the assembly day by day those who were being saved. 
ACT   3\v 47 praising God and having favor with all the people. The Lord added to the assembly day by day those who were being saved. 
ACT   3\v 13 The God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the God of our fathers, has glorified his Servant Jesus, whom you delivered up, and denied in the presence of Pilate, when he had determined to release him. 
ACT   3\v 13 The God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the God of our fathers, has glorified his Servant Jesus, whom you delivered up and denied in the presence of Pilate, when he had determined to release him. 
ACT   4\v 25 who by the mouth of your servant, David, said, 
ACT   4\v 25 who by the mouth of your servant David, said, 
ACT   4\v 27 “For truly,\f + \fr 4:27  \ft nu adds “in this city,”\f* both Herod and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and the people of Israel, were gathered together against your holy servant, Jesus, whom you anointed, 
ACT   4\v 27 “For truly,\f + \fr 4:27  \ft nu adds “in this city,”\f* both Herod and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and the people of Israel, were gathered together against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed, 
ACT   4\v 35 and laid them at the apostles’ feet, and distribution was made to each, according as anyone had need. 
ACT   4\v 35 and laid them at the apostles’ feet; and distribution was made to each, according as anyone had need. 
ACT   5\v 1 But a certain man named Ananias, with Sapphira, his wife, sold a possession, 
ACT   5\v 1 But a certain man named Ananias, with Sapphira his wife, sold a possession, 
ACT   5\v 13 None of the rest dared to join them, however the people honored them. 
ACT   5\v 13 None of the rest dared to join them; however, the people honored them. 
ACT   5\v 15 They even carried out the sick into the streets, and laid them on cots and mattresses, so that as Peter came by, at the least his shadow might overshadow some of them. 
ACT   5\v 15 They even carried out the sick into the streets and laid them on cots and mattresses, so that as Peter came by, at least his shadow might overshadow some of them. 
ACT   5\v 21 When they heard this, they entered into the temple about daybreak and taught. But the high priest came, and those who were with him, and called the council together, and all the senate of the children of Israel, and sent to the prison to have them brought. 
ACT   5\v 21 When they heard this, they entered into the temple about daybreak and taught. But the high priest and those who were with him came and called the council together, with all the senate of the children of Israel, and sent to the prison to have them brought. 
ACT   6\v 3 Therefore select from among you, brothers, seven men of good report, full of the Holy Spirit and of wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business. 
ACT   6\v 3 Therefore, select from among you, brothers, seven men of good report, full of the Holy Spirit and of wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business. 
ACT   6\v 5 These words pleased the whole multitude. They chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Spirit, Philip, Prochorus, Nicanor, Timon, Parmenas, and Nicolaus, a proselyte of Antioch; 
ACT   6\v 5 These words pleased the whole multitude. They chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Spirit, Philip, Prochorus, Nicanor, Timon, Parmenas, and Nicolaus, a proselyte of Antioch, 
ACT   7\v 7 ‘I will judge the nation to which they will be in bondage,’ said God, ‘and after that they will come out, and serve me in this place.’\x + \xo 7:7  \xt Genesis 15:13-14\x* 
ACT   7\v 7 ‘I will judge the nation to which they will be in bondage,’ said God, ‘and after that they will come out and serve me in this place.’\x + \xo 7:7  \xt Genesis 15:13-14\x* 
ACT   7\v 9 “The patriarchs, moved with jealousy against Joseph, sold him into Egypt. God was with him, 
ACT   7\v 9 “The patriarchs, moved with jealousy against Joseph, sold him into Egypt. God was with him 
ACT   7\v 13 On the second time Joseph was made known to his brothers, and Joseph’s race was revealed to Pharaoh. 
ACT   7\v 13 On the second time Joseph was made known to his brothers, and Joseph’s family was revealed to Pharaoh. 
ACT   7\v 15 Jacob went down into Egypt and he died, himself and our fathers, 
ACT   7\v 15 Jacob went down into Egypt and he died, himself and our fathers; 
ACT   7\v 19 The same took advantage of our race, and mistreated our fathers, and forced them to throw out their babies, so that they wouldn’t stay alive. 
ACT   7\v 19 The same took advantage of our race and mistreated our fathers, and forced them to abandon their babies, so that they wouldn’t stay alive. 
ACT   7\v 21 When he was thrown out, Pharaoh’s daughter took him up and reared him as her own son. 
ACT   7\v 21 When he was abandoned, Pharaoh’s daughter took him up and reared him as her own son. 
ACT   7\v 31 When Moses saw it, he wondered at the sight. As he came close to see, a voice of the Lord came to him, 
ACT   7\v 31 When Moses saw it, he wondered at the sight. As he came close to see, the voice of the Lord came to him, 
ACT   7\v 35 “This Moses, whom they refused, saying, ‘Who made you a ruler and a judge?’—God has sent him as both a ruler and a deliverer by the hand of the angel who appeared to him in the bush. 
ACT   7\v 35 “This Moses whom they refused, saying, ‘Who made you a ruler and a judge?’—God has sent him as both a ruler and a deliverer by the hand of the angel who appeared to him in the bush. 
ACT   7\v 37 This is that Moses, who said to the children of Israel, ‘The Lord our God will raise up a prophet for you from among your brothers, like me.’\f + \fr 7:37  \ft TR adds “You shall listen to him.”\f*\x + \xo 7:37  \xt Deuteronomy 18:15\x* 
ACT   7\v 37 This is that Moses who said to the children of Israel, ‘The Lord our God will raise up a prophet for you from among your brothers, like me.’\f + \fr 7:37  \ft TR adds “You shall listen to him.”\f*\x + \xo 7:37  \xt Deuteronomy 18:15\x* 
ACT   7\v 39 to whom our fathers wouldn’t be obedient, but rejected him, and turned back in their hearts to Egypt, 
ACT   7\v 39 to whom our fathers wouldn’t be obedient, but rejected him and turned back in their hearts to Egypt, 
ACT   7\v 45 which also our fathers, in their turn, brought in with Joshua when they entered into the possession of the nations, whom God drove out before the face of our fathers, to the days of David, 
ACT   7\v 45 which also our fathers, in their turn, brought in with Joshua when they entered into the possession of the nations whom God drove out before the face of our fathers to the days of David, 
ACT   8\v 5 Philip went down to the city of Samaria, and proclaimed to them the Christ. 
ACT   8\v 5 Philip went down to the city of Samaria and proclaimed to them the Christ. 
ACT   8\v 11 They listened to him, because for a long time he had amazed them with his sorceries. 
ACT   8\v 11 They listened to him because for a long time he had amazed them with his sorceries. 
ACT   8\v 37  \f + \fr 8:37  \ft TR adds \fqa \f* Philip said, “If you believe with all your heart, you may.” He answered, “I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God.” 
ACT   8\v 37  \f + \fr 8:37  \ft TR adds \fqa Philip said, “If you believe with all your heart, you may.” He answered, “I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God.”\f* 
ACT   9\v 11 The Lord said to him, \wj “Arise, and go to the street which is called Straight, and inquire in the house of Judah\wj*\f + \fr 9:11  \ft or, Judas\f* \wj for one named Saul, a man of Tarsus. For behold, he is praying, \wj* 
ACT   9\v 11 The Lord said to him, \wj “Arise and go to the street which is called Straight, and inquire in the house of Judah\wj*\f + \fr 9:11  \ft or, Judas\f* \wj for one named Saul, a man of Tarsus. For behold, he is praying, \wj* 
ACT   9\v 19 He took food and was strengthened. Saul stayed several days with the disciples who were at Damascus. 
ACT   9\v 19 He took food and was strengthened. 
ACT   9\v 31 So the assemblies throughout all Judea, Galilee, and Samaria had peace, and were built up. They were multiplied, walking in the fear of the Lord and in the comfort of the Holy Spirit. 
ACT   9\v 31 So the assemblies throughout all Judea, Galilee, and Samaria had peace and were built up. They were multiplied, walking in the fear of the Lord and in the comfort of the Holy Spirit. 
ACT   9\v 33 There he found a certain man named Aeneas, who had been bedridden for eight years, because he was paralyzed. 
ACT   9\v 33 There he found a certain man named Aeneas, who had been bedridden for eight years because he was paralyzed. 
ACT   9\v 37 In those days, she became sick, and died. When they had washed her, they laid her in an upper room. 
ACT   9\v 37 In those days, she became sick and died. When they had washed her, they laid her in an upper room. 
ACT   9\v 39 Peter got up and went with them. When he had come, they brought him into the upper room. All the widows stood by him weeping, and showing the coats and garments which Dorcas had made while she was with them. 
ACT   9\v 39 Peter got up and went with them. When he had come, they brought him into the upper room. All the widows stood by him weeping, and showing the tunics and other garments which Dorcas had made while she was with them. 
ACT   9\v 41 He gave her his hand, and raised her up. Calling the saints and widows, he presented her alive. 
ACT   9\v 41 He gave her his hand and raised her up. Calling the saints and widows, he presented her alive. 
ACT  10\v 3 At about the ninth hour of the day,\f + \fr 10:3  \ft 3:00 p.m.\f* he clearly saw in a vision an angel of God coming to him, and saying to him, “Cornelius!” 
ACT  10\v 3 At about the ninth hour of the day,\f + \fr 10:3  \ft 3:00 p.m.\f* he clearly saw in a vision an angel of God coming to him and saying to him, “Cornelius!” 
ACT  10\v 9 Now on the next day as they were on their journey, and got close to the city, Peter went up on the housetop to pray at about noon. 
ACT  10\v 9 Now on the next day as they were on their journey and got close to the city, Peter went up on the housetop to pray at about noon. 
ACT  10\v 23 So he called them in and provided a place to stay. On the next day Peter arose and went out with them, and some of the brothers from Joppa accompanied him. 
ACT  10\v 23 So he called them in and provided a place to stay. 
ACT  10\v 39 We are witnesses of everything he did both in the country of the Jews, and in Jerusalem; whom they also\f + \fr 10:39  \ft TR omits “also”\f* killed, hanging him on a tree. 
ACT  10\v 39 We are witnesses of everything he did both in the country of the Jews and in Jerusalem; whom they also\f + \fr 10:39  \ft TR omits “also”\f* killed, hanging him on a tree. 
ACT  11\v 3 saying, “You went in to uncircumcised men, and ate with them!” 
ACT  11\v 3 saying, “You went in to uncircumcised men and ate with them!” 
ACT  11\v 13 He told us how he had seen the angel standing in his house, and saying to him, ‘Send to Joppa, and get Simon, who is called Peter, 
ACT  11\v 13 He told us how he had seen the angel standing in his house and saying to him, ‘Send to Joppa and get Simon, who is called Peter, 
ACT  11\v 17 If then God gave to them the same gift as us, when we believed in the Lord Jesus Christ, who was I, that I could withstand God?” 
ACT  11\v 17 If then God gave to them the same gift as us when we believed in the Lord Jesus Christ, who was I, that I could withstand God?” 
ACT  12\v 7 And behold, an angel of the Lord stood by him, and a light shone in the cell. He struck Peter on the side, and woke him up, saying, “Stand up quickly!” His chains fell off his hands. 
ACT  12\v 7 And behold, an angel of the Lord stood by him, and a light shone in the cell. He struck Peter on the side and woke him up, saying, “Stand up quickly!” His chains fell off his hands. 
ACT  12\v 19 When Herod had sought for him, and didn’t find him, he examined the guards, then commanded that they should be put to death. He went down from Judea to Caesarea, and stayed there. 
ACT  12\v 19 When Herod had sought for him and didn’t find him, he examined the guards, then commanded that they should be put to death. He went down from Judea to Caesarea, and stayed there. 
ACT  13\v 9 But Saul, who is also called Paul, filled with the Holy Spirit, fastened his eyes on him, 
ACT  13\v 9 But Saul, who is also called Paul, filled with the Holy Spirit, fastened his eyes on him 
ACT  13\v 13 Now Paul and his company set sail from Paphos, and came to Perga in Pamphylia. John departed from them and returned to Jerusalem. 
ACT  13\v 13 Now Paul and his company set sail from Paphos and came to Perga in Pamphylia. John departed from them and returned to Jerusalem. 
ACT  13\v 29 When they had fulfilled all things that were written about him, they took him down from the tree, and laid him in a tomb. 
ACT  13\v 29 When they had fulfilled all things that were written about him, they took him down from the tree and laid him in a tomb. 
ACT  13\v 41 ‘Behold, you scoffers, and wonder, and perish; 
ACT  13\v 41 ‘Behold, you scoffers! 
ACT  14\v 9 He was listening to Paul speaking, who, fastening eyes on him, and seeing that he had faith to be made whole, 
ACT  14\v 9 He was listening to Paul speaking, who, fastening eyes on him and seeing that he had faith to be made whole, 
ACT  14\v 15 “Men, why are you doing these things? We also are men of like passions with you, and bring you good news, that you should turn from these vain things to the living God, who made the sky, the earth, the sea, and all that is in them; 
ACT  14\v 15 “Men, why are you doing these things? We also are men of the same nature as you, and bring you good news, that you should turn from these vain things to the living God, who made the sky, the earth, the sea, and all that is in them; 
ACT  14\v 19 But some Jews from Antioch and Iconium came there, and having persuaded the multitudes, they stoned Paul, and dragged him out of the city, supposing that he was dead. 
ACT  14\v 19 But some Jews from Antioch and Iconium came there, and having persuaded the multitudes, they stoned Paul and dragged him out of the city, supposing that he was dead. 
ACT  14\v 21 When they had preached the Good News to that city, and had made many disciples, they returned to Lystra, Iconium, and Antioch, 
ACT  14\v 21 When they had preached the Good News to that city and had made many disciples, they returned to Lystra, Iconium, and Antioch, 
ACT  14\v 23 When they had appointed elders for them in every assembly, and had prayed with fasting, they commended them to the Lord, on whom they had believed. 
ACT  14\v 23 When they had appointed elders for them in every assembly, and had prayed with fasting, they commended them to the Lord on whom they had believed. 
ACT  14\v 27 When they had arrived, and had gathered the assembly together, they reported all the things that God had done with them, and that he had opened a door of faith to the nations. 
ACT  14\v 27 When they had arrived and had gathered the assembly together, they reported all the things that God had done with them, and that he had opened a door of faith to the nations. 
ACT  16\v 1 He came to Derbe and Lystra: and behold, a certain disciple was there, named Timothy, the son of a Jewess who believed; but his father was a Greek. 
ACT  16\v 1 He came to Derbe and Lystra; and behold, a certain disciple was there, named Timothy, the son of a Jewess who believed, but his father was a Greek. 
ACT  16\v 3 Paul wanted to have him go out with him, and he took and circumcised him because of the Jews who were in those parts; for they all knew that his father was a Greek. 
ACT  16\v 3 Paul wanted to have him go out with him, and he took and circumcised him because of the Jews who were in those parts, for they all knew that his father was a Greek. 
ACT  16\v 9 A vision appeared to Paul in the night. There was a man of Macedonia standing, begging him, and saying, “Come over into Macedonia and help us.” 
ACT  16\v 9 A vision appeared to Paul in the night. There was a man of Macedonia standing, begging him and saying, “Come over into Macedonia and help us.” 
ACT  16\v 19 But when her masters saw that the hope of their gain was gone, they seized Paul and Silas, and dragged them into the marketplace before the rulers. 
ACT  16\v 19 But when her masters saw that the hope of their gain was gone, they seized Paul and Silas and dragged them into the marketplace before the rulers. 
ACT  16\v 23 When they had laid many stripes on them, they threw them into prison, charging the jailer to keep them safely, 
ACT  16\v 23 When they had laid many stripes on them, they threw them into prison, charging the jailer to keep them safely. 
ACT  17\v 5 But the unpersuaded Jews took along\f + \fr 17:5  \ft TR reads “And the Jews who were unpersuaded, becoming envious and taking along” instead of “But the unpersuaded Jews took along”\f* some wicked men from the marketplace, and gathering a crowd, set the city in an uproar. Assaulting the house of Jason, they sought to bring them out to the people. 
ACT  17\v 5 But the unpersuaded Jews took along\f + \fr 17:5  \ft TR reads “And the Jews who were unpersuaded, becoming envious and taking along” instead of “But the unpersuaded Jews took along”\f* some wicked men from the marketplace and gathering a crowd, set the city in an uproar. Assaulting the house of Jason, they sought to bring them out to the people. 
ACT  17\v 25 He isn’t served by men’s hands, as though he needed anything, seeing he himself gives to all life and breath, and all things. 
ACT  17\v 25 He isn’t served by men’s hands, as though he needed anything, seeing he himself gives to all life and breath and all things. 
ACT  18\v 1 After these things Paul departed from Athens, and came to Corinth. 
ACT  18\v 1 After these things Paul departed from Athens and came to Corinth. 
ACT  18\v 5 But when Silas and Timothy came down from Macedonia, Paul was compelled by the Spirit, testifying to the Jews that Jesus was the Christ. 
ACT  18\v 5 When Silas and Timothy came down from Macedonia, Paul was compelled by the Spirit, testifying to the Jews that Jesus was the Christ. 
ACT  18\v 7 He departed there, and went into the house of a certain man named Justus, one who worshiped God, whose house was next door to the synagogue. 
ACT  18\v 7 He departed there and went into the house of a certain man named Justus, one who worshiped God, whose house was next door to the synagogue. 
ACT  18\v 19 He came to Ephesus, and he left them there; but he himself entered into the synagogue, and reasoned with the Jews. 
ACT  18\v 19 He came to Ephesus, and he left them there; but he himself entered into the synagogue and reasoned with the Jews. 
ACT  18\v 23 Having spent some time there, he departed, and went through the region of Galatia, and Phrygia, in order, establishing all the disciples. 
ACT  18\v 23 Having spent some time there, he departed and went through the region of Galatia and Phrygia, in order, establishing all the disciples. 
ACT  18\v 27 When he had determined to pass over into Achaia, the brothers encouraged him, and wrote to the disciples to receive him. When he had come, he greatly helped those who had believed through grace; 
ACT  18\v 27 When he had determined to pass over into Achaia, the brothers encouraged him; and wrote to the disciples to receive him. When he had come, he greatly helped those who had believed through grace; 
ACT  19\v 9 But when some were hardened and disobedient, speaking evil of the Way before the multitude, he departed from them, and separated the disciples, reasoning daily in the school of Tyrannus. 
ACT  19\v 9 But when some were hardened and disobedient, speaking evil of the Way before the multitude, he departed from them and separated the disciples, reasoning daily in the school of Tyrannus. 
ACT  19\v 19 Many of those who practiced magical arts brought their books together and burned them in the sight of all. They counted their price, and found it to be fifty thousand pieces of silver.\f + \fr 19:19  \ft The 50,000 pieces of silver here probably referred to 50,000 drachmas. If so, the value of the burned books was equivalent to about 160 man-years of wages for agricultural\f* laborers 
ACT  19\v 19 Many of those who practiced magical arts brought their books together and burned them in the sight of all. They counted their price, and found it to be fifty thousand pieces of silver.\f + \fr 19:19  \ft The 50,000 pieces of silver here probably referred to 50,000 drachmas. If so, the value of the burned books was equivalent to about 160 man-years of wages for agricultural laborers\f* 
ACT  19\v 25 whom he gathered together, with the workmen of like occupation, and said, “Sirs, you know that by this business we have our wealth. 
ACT  19\v 25 whom he gathered together with the workmen of like occupation, and said, “Sirs, you know that by this business we have our wealth. 
ACT  20\v 7 On the first day of the week, when the disciples were gathered together to break bread, Paul talked with them, intending to depart on the next day, and continued his speech until midnight. 
ACT  20\v 7 On the first day of the week, when the disciples were gathered together to break bread, Paul talked with them, intending to depart on the next day; and continued his speech until midnight. 
ACT  20\v 11 When he had gone up, and had broken bread and eaten, and had talked with them a long while, even until break of day, he departed. 
ACT  20\v 11 When he had gone up, had broken bread and eaten, and had talked with them a long while, even until break of day, he departed. 
ACT  20\v 17 From Miletus he sent to Ephesus, and called to himself the elders of the assembly. 
ACT  20\v 17 From Miletus he sent to Ephesus and called to himself the elders of the assembly. 
ACT  20\v 21 testifying both to Jews and to Greeks repentance toward God, and faith toward our Lord Jesus.\f + \fr 20:21  \ft TR adds\f* “Christ” 
ACT  20\v 21 testifying both to Jews and to Greeks repentance toward God and faith toward our Lord Jesus.\f + \fr 20:21  \ft TR adds “Christ”\f* 
ACT  21\v 29 For they had seen Trophimus, the Ephesian, with him in the city, and they supposed that Paul had brought him into the temple. 
ACT  21\v 29 For they had seen Trophimus the Ephesian, with him in the city, and they supposed that Paul had brought him into the temple. 
ACT  21\v 39 But Paul said, “I am a Jew, from Tarsus in Cilicia, a citizen of no insignificant city. I beg you, allow me to speak to the people.” 
ACT  21\v 39 But Paul said, “I am a Jew from Tarsus in Cilicia, a citizen of no insignificant city. I beg you, allow me to speak to the people.” 
ACT  22\v 7 I fell to the ground, and heard a voice saying to me, \wj ‘Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?’\wj* 
ACT  22\v 7 I fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to me, \wj ‘Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?’\wj* 
ACT  22\v 17 “When I had returned to Jerusalem, and while I prayed in the temple, I fell into a trance, 
ACT  22\v 17 “When I had returned to Jerusalem and while I prayed in the temple, I fell into a trance 
ACT  23\v 17 Paul summoned one of the centurions, and said, “Bring this young man to the commanding officer, for he has something to tell him.” 
ACT  23\v 17 Paul summoned one of the centurions and said, “Bring this young man to the commanding officer, for he has something to tell him.” 
ACT  23\v 23 He called to himself two of the centurions, and said, “Prepare two hundred soldiers to go as far as Caesarea, with seventy horsemen, and two hundred men armed with spears, at the third hour of the night.”\f + \fr 23:23  \ft about 9:00 p.m.\f* 
ACT  23\v 23 He called to himself two of the centurions, and said, “Prepare two hundred soldiers to go as far as Caesarea, with seventy horsemen and two hundred men armed with spears, at the third hour of the night.”\f + \fr 23:23  \ft about 9:00 p.m.\f* 
ACT  23\v 27 “This man was seized by the Jews, and was about to be killed by them, when I came with the soldiers and rescued him, having learned that he was a Roman. 
ACT  23\v 27 “This man was seized by the Jews, and was about to be killed by them when I came with the soldiers and rescued him, having learned that he was a Roman. 
ACT  24\v 7  \f + \fr 24:7  \ft TR adds\f* “but the commanding officer, Lysias, came by and with great violence took him out of our hands,” 
ACT  24\v 7  \f + \fr 24:7  \ft TR adds “but the commanding officer, Lysias, came by and with great violence took him out of our hands,”\f* 
ACT  24\v 19 They ought to have been here before you, and to make accusation, if they had anything against me. 
ACT  24\v 19 They ought to have been here before you and to make accusation if they had anything against me. 
ACT  24\v 23 He ordered the centurion that Paul should be kept in custody, and should have some privileges, and not to forbid any of his friends to serve him or to visit him. 
ACT  24\v 23 He ordered the centurion that Paul should be kept in custody and should have some privileges, and not to forbid any of his friends to serve him or to visit him. 
ACT  25\v 3 asking a favor against him, that he would summon him to Jerusalem; plotting to kill him on the way. 
ACT  25\v 3 asking a favor against him, that he would summon him to Jerusalem, plotting to kill him on the way. 
ACT  25\v 9 But Festus, desiring to gain favor with the Jews, answered Paul and said, “Are you willing to go up to Jerusalem, and be judged by me there concerning these things?” 
ACT  25\v 9 But Festus, desiring to gain favor with the Jews, answered Paul and said, “Are you willing to go up to Jerusalem and be judged by me there concerning these things?” 
ACT  25\v 13 Now when some days had passed, King Agrippa and Bernice arrived at Caesarea, and greeted Festus. 
ACT  25\v 13 Now when some days had passed, King Agrippa and Bernice arrived at Caesarea and greeted Festus. 
ACT  25\v 19 but had certain questions against him about their own religion, and about one Jesus, who was dead, whom Paul affirmed to be alive. 
ACT  25\v 19 but had certain questions against him about their own religion and about one Jesus, who was dead, whom Paul affirmed to be alive. 
ACT  25\v 25 But when I found that he had committed nothing worthy of death, and as he himself appealed to the emperor I determined to send him, 
ACT  25\v 25 But when I found that he had committed nothing worthy of death, and as he himself appealed to the emperor, I determined to send him, 
ACT  26\v 17  \wj delivering you from the people, and from the Gentiles, to whom I send you, \wj* 
ACT  26\v 17  \wj delivering you from the people and from the Gentiles, to whom I send you, \wj* 
ACT  27\v 3 The next day, we touched at Sidon. Julius treated Paul kindly, and gave him permission to go to his friends and refresh himself. 
ACT  27\v 3 The next day, we touched at Sidon. Julius treated Paul kindly and gave him permission to go to his friends and refresh himself. 
ACT  27\v 9 When much time had passed and the voyage was now dangerous, because the Fast had now already gone by, Paul admonished them 
ACT  27\v 9 When much time had passed and the voyage was now dangerous because the Fast had now already gone by, Paul admonished them 
ACT  27\v 21 When they had been long without food, Paul stood up in the middle of them, and said, “Sirs, you should have listened to me, and not have set sail from Crete and have gotten this injury and loss. 
ACT  27\v 21 When they had been long without food, Paul stood up in the middle of them and said, “Sirs, you should have listened to me, and not have set sail from Crete and have gotten this injury and loss. 
ACT  27\v 35 When he had said this, and had taken bread, he gave thanks to God in the presence of all, then he broke it and began to eat. 
ACT  27\v 35 When he had said this and had taken bread, he gave thanks to God in the presence of all; then he broke it and began to eat. 
ACT  28\v 3 But when Paul had gathered a bundle of sticks and laid them on the fire, a viper came out because of the heat, and fastened on his hand. 
ACT  28\v 3 But when Paul had gathered a bundle of sticks and laid them on the fire, a viper came out because of the heat and fastened on his hand. 
ACT  28\v 7 Now in the neighborhood of that place were lands belonging to the chief man of the island, named Publius, who received us, and courteously entertained us for three days. 
ACT  28\v 7 Now in the neighborhood of that place were lands belonging to the chief man of the island, named Publius, who received us and courteously entertained us for three days. 
ACT  28\v 11 After three months, we set sail in a ship of Alexandria which had wintered in the island, whose sign was “The Twin Brothers.” 
ACT  28\v 11 After three months, we set sail in a ship of Alexandria which had wintered in the island, whose figurehead was “The Twin Brothers.” 
ACT  28\v 25 When they didn’t agree among themselves, they departed after Paul had spoken one word, “The Holy Spirit spoke rightly through Isaiah the prophet to our fathers, 
ACT  28\v 25 When they didn’t agree among themselves, they departed after Paul had spoken one message: “The Holy Spirit spoke rightly through Isaiah the prophet to our fathers, 
ACT  28\v 31 preaching God’s Kingdom, and teaching the things concerning the Lord Jesus Christ with all boldness, without hindrance. ACT  28\v 31 preaching God’s Kingdom and teaching the things concerning the Lord Jesus Christ with all boldness, without hindrance. ROM   1\v 1 Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ, called to be an apostle, set apart for the Good News of God, 
ROM   1\v 1 Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ,\f + \fr 1:1  \ft “Christ” means “Anointed One”.\f* called to be an apostle, set apart for the Good News of God, 
ROM   1\v 13 Now I don’t desire to have you unaware, brothers, that I often planned to come to you, and was hindered so far, that I might have some fruit among you also, even as among the rest of the Gentiles. 
ROM   1\v 13 Now I don’t desire to have you unaware, brothers, that I often planned to come to you (and was hindered so far), that I might have some fruit among you also, even as among the rest of the Gentiles. 
ROM   2\v 5 But according to your hardness and unrepentant heart you are treasuring up for yourself wrath in the day of wrath, revelation, and of the righteous judgment of God; 
ROM   2\v 5 But according to your hardness and unrepentant heart you are treasuring up for yourself wrath in the day of wrath, revelation, and of the righteous judgment of God, 
ROM   2\v 27 Won’t the uncircumcision which is by nature, if it fulfills the law, judge you, who with the letter and circumcision are a transgressor of the law? 
ROM   2\v 27 Won’t those who are physically uncircumcised, but fulfill the law, judge you, who with the letter and circumcision are a transgressor of the law? 
ROM   3\v 29 but he is a Jew who is one inwardly, and circumcision is that of the heart, in the spirit not in the letter; whose praise is not from men, but from God. 
ROM   3\v 29 but he is a Jew who is one inwardly, and circumcision is that of the heart, in the spirit, not in the letter; whose praise is not from men, but from God. 
ROM   3\v 25 whom God sent to be an atoning sacrifice,\f + \fr 3:25  \ft or, a propitiation\f* through faith in his blood, for a demonstration of his righteousness through the passing over of prior sins, in God’s forbearance; 
ROM   3\v 25 whom God sent to be an atoning sacrifice\f + \fr 3:25  \ft or, a propitiation\f* through faith in his blood, for a demonstration of his righteousness through the passing over of prior sins, in God’s forbearance; 
ROM   4\v 9 Is this blessing then pronounced on the circumcised, or on the uncircumcised also? For we say that faith was accounted to Abraham for righteousness. 
ROM   4\v 9 Is this blessing then pronounced only on the circumcised, or on the uncircumcised also? For we say that faith was accounted to Abraham for righteousness. 
ROM   4\v 13 For the promise to Abraham and to his offspring that he should be heir of the world wasn’t through the law, but through the righteousness of faith. 
ROM   4\v 13 For the promise to Abraham and to his offspring that he would be heir of the world wasn’t through the law, but through the righteousness of faith. 
ROM   4\v 15 For the law produces wrath, for where there is no law, neither is there disobedience. 
ROM   4\v 15 For the law produces wrath; for where there is no law, neither is there disobedience. 
ROM   5\v 15 But the free gift isn’t like the trespass. For if by the trespass of the one the many died, much more did the grace of God, and the gift by the grace of the one man, Jesus Christ, abound to the many. 
ROM   5\v 15 But the free gift isn’t like the trespass. For if by the trespass of the one the many died, much more did the grace of God and the gift by the grace of the one man, Jesus Christ, abound to the many. 
ROM   6\v 3 Or don’t you know that all we who were baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? 
ROM   6\v 3 Or don’t you know that all of us who were baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? 
ROM   6\v 15 What then? Shall we sin, because we are not under law, but under grace? May it never be! 
ROM   6\v 15 What then? Shall we sin because we are not under law but under grace? May it never be! 
ROM   6\v 17 But thanks be to God, that, whereas you were bondservants of sin, you became obedient from the heart to that form of teaching to which you were delivered. 
ROM   6\v 17 But thanks be to God that, whereas you were bondservants of sin, you became obedient from the heart to that form of teaching to which you were delivered. 
ROM   6\v 19 I speak in human terms because of the weakness of your flesh, for as you presented your members as servants to uncleanness and to wickedness upon wickedness, even so now present your members as servants to righteousness for sanctification. 
ROM   6\v 19 I speak in human terms because of the weakness of your flesh; for as you presented your members as servants to uncleanness and to wickedness upon wickedness, even so now present your members as servants to righteousness for sanctification. 
ROM   7\v 7 What shall we say then? Is the law sin? May it never be! However, I wouldn’t have known sin, except through the law. For I wouldn’t have known coveting, unless the law had said, “You shall not covet.”\x + \xo 7:7  \xt Exodus 20:17; Deuteronomy 5:21\x* 
ROM   7\v 7 What shall we say then? Is the law sin? May it never be! However, I wouldn’t have known sin except through the law. For I wouldn’t have known coveting unless the law had said, “You shall not covet.”\x + \xo 7:7  \xt Exodus 20:17; Deuteronomy 5:21\x* 
ROM   7\v 9 I was alive apart from the law once, but when the commandment came, sin revived, and I died. 
ROM   7\v 9 I was alive apart from the law once, but when the commandment came, sin revived and I died. 
ROM   7\v 15 For I don’t know what I am doing. For I don’t practice what I desire to do; but what I hate, that I do. 
ROM   7\v 15 For I don’t understand what I am doing. For I don’t practice what I desire to do; but what I hate, that I do. 
ROM   7\v 21 I find then the law that, to me, while I desire to do good, evil is present. 
ROM   7\v 21 I find then the law that, while I desire to do good, evil is present. 
ROM   8\v 3 For what the law couldn’t do, in that it was weak through the flesh, God did, sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin, he condemned sin in the flesh; 
ROM   8\v 3 For what the law couldn’t do, in that it was weak through the flesh, God did, sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin, he condemned sin in the flesh, 
ROM   8\v 7 because the mind of the flesh is hostile toward God; for it is not subject to God’s law, neither indeed can it be. 
ROM   8\v 7 because the mind of the flesh is hostile toward God, for it is not subject to God’s law, neither indeed can it be. 
ROM   8\v 17 and if children, then heirs: heirs of God and joint heirs with Christ, if indeed we suffer with him, that we may also be glorified with him. 
ROM   8\v 17 and if children, then heirs—heirs of God and joint heirs with Christ, if indeed we suffer with him, that we may also be glorified with him. 
ROM   8\v 37 No, in all these things, we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. 
ROM   8\v 37 No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. 
ROM   9\v 9 For this is a word of promise, “At the appointed time I will come, and Sarah will have a son.”\x + \xo 9:9  \xt Genesis 18:10,14\x* 
ROM   9\v 9 For this is a word of promise: “At the appointed time I will come, and Sarah will have a son.”\x + \xo 9:9  \xt Genesis 18:10,14\x* 
ROM   9\v 23 and that he might make known the riches of his glory on vessels of mercy, which he prepared beforehand for glory, 
ROM   9\v 23 and that he might make known the riches of his glory on vessels of mercy, which he prepared beforehand for glory— 
ROM  10\v 9 that if you will confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord, and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. 
ROM  10\v 9 that if you will confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. 
ROM  11\v 3 “Lord, they have killed your prophets, they have broken down your altars. I am left alone, and they seek my life.”\x + \xo 11:3  \xt 1 Kings 19:10,14\x* 
ROM  11\v 3 “Lord, they have killed your prophets. They have broken down your altars. I am left alone, and they seek my life.”\x + \xo 11:3  \xt 1 Kings 19:10,14\x* 
ROM  11\v 5 Even so then at this present time also there is a remnant according to the election of grace. 
ROM  11\v 5 Even so too at this present time also there is a remnant according to the election of grace. 
ROM  11\v 13 For I speak to you who are Gentiles. Since then as I am an apostle to Gentiles, I glorify my ministry; 
ROM  11\v 13 For I speak to you who are Gentiles. Since then as I am an apostle to Gentiles, I glorify my ministry, 
ROM  12\v 3 For I say through the grace that was given me, to every man who is among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think; but to think reasonably, as God has apportioned to each person a measure of faith. 
ROM  12\v 3 For I say through the grace that was given me, to everyone who is among you, not to think of yourself more highly than you ought to think; but to think reasonably, as God has apportioned to each person a measure of faith. 
ROM  12\v 11 not lagging in diligence; fervent in spirit; serving the Lord; 
ROM  12\v 11 not lagging in diligence, fervent in spirit, serving the Lord, 
ROM  12\v 13 contributing to the needs of the saints; given to hospitality. 
ROM  12\v 13 contributing to the needs of the saints, and given to hospitality. 
ROM  15\v 13 Now may the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, that you may abound in hope, in the power of the Holy Spirit. 
ROM  15\v 13 Now may the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, that you may abound in hope in the power of the Holy Spirit. 
ROM  15\v 15 But I write the more boldly to you in part, as reminding you, because of the grace that was given to me by God, 
ROM  15\v 15 But I write the more boldly to you in part as reminding you, because of the grace that was given to me by God, 
ROM  15\v 19 in the power of signs and wonders, in the power of God’s Spirit; so that from Jerusalem, and around as far as to Illyricum, I have fully preached the Good News of Christ; 
ROM  15\v 19 in the power of signs and wonders, in the power of God’s Spirit; so that from Jerusalem and around as far as to Illyricum, I have fully preached the Good News of Christ; 
ROM  15\v 27 Yes, it has been their good pleasure, and they are their debtors. For if the Gentiles have been made partakers of their spiritual things, they owe it to them also to serve them in fleshly things. 
ROM  15\v 27 Yes, it has been their good pleasure, and they are their debtors. For if the Gentiles have been made partakers of their spiritual things, they owe it to them also to serve them in material things. 
ROM  16\v 25  \f + \fr 16:25  \ft TR places Romans 14:24-26 at the end of Romans instead of \f*at the end of chapter 14, and numbers these verses 16:25-27. 
ROM  16\v 25  \f + \fr 16:25  \ft TR places Romans 14:24-26 at the end of Romans instead of at the end of chapter 14, and numbers these verses 16:25-27.\f* 1CO   1\v 1 Paul, called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of God, and our brother Sosthenes, 
1CO   1\v 1 Paul, called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ\f + \fr 1:1  \ft “Christ” means “Anointed One”.\f* through the will of God, and our brother Sosthenes, 
1CO   1\v 5 that in everything you were enriched in him, in all speech and all knowledge; 
1CO   1\v 5 that in everything you were enriched in him, in all speech and all knowledge— 
1CO   1\v 7 so that you come behind in no gift; waiting for the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ; 
1CO   1\v 7 so that you come behind in no gift, waiting for the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ, 
1CO   1\v 9 God is faithful, through whom you were called into the fellowship of his Son, Jesus Christ, our Lord. 
1CO   1\v 9 God is faithful, through whom you were called into the fellowship of his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord. 
1CO   1\v 23 but we preach Christ crucified: a stumbling block to Jews, and foolishness to Greeks, 
1CO   1\v 23 but we preach Christ crucified, a stumbling block to Jews and foolishness to Greeks, 
1CO   2\v 11 For who among men knows the things of a man, except the spirit of the man, which is in him? Even so, no one knows the things of God, except God’s Spirit. 
1CO   2\v 11 For who among men knows the things of a man except the spirit of the man which is in him? Even so, no one knows the things of God except God’s Spirit. 
1CO   2\v 13 We also speak these things, not in words which man’s wisdom teaches, but which the Holy Spirit teaches, comparing spiritual things with spiritual things. 
1CO   2\v 13 We also speak these things, not in words which man’s wisdom teaches but which the Holy Spirit teaches, comparing spiritual things with spiritual things. 
1CO   2\v 15 But he who is spiritual discerns all things, and he himself is judged by no one. 
1CO   2\v 15 But he who is spiritual discerns all things, and he himself is to be judged by no one. 
1CO   4\v 1 So let a man think of us as Christ’s servants, and stewards of God’s mysteries. 
1CO   4\v 1 So let a man think of us as Christ’s servants and stewards of God’s mysteries. 
1CO   4\v 3 But with me it is a very small thing that I should be judged by you, or by man’s judgment. Yes, I don’t judge my own self. 
1CO   4\v 3 But with me it is a very small thing that I should be judged by you, or by a human court. Yes, I don’t even judge my own self. 
1CO   4\v 5 Therefore judge nothing before the time, until the Lord comes, who will both bring to light the hidden things of darkness, and reveal the counsels of the hearts. Then each man will get his praise from God. 
1CO   4\v 5 Therefore judge nothing before the time, until the Lord comes, who will both bring to light the hidden things of darkness and reveal the counsels of the hearts. Then each man will get his praise from God. 
1CO   5\v 5 are to deliver such a one to Satan for the destruction of the flesh, that the spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus. 
1CO   5\v 5 you are to deliver such a one to Satan for the destruction of the flesh, that the spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus. 
1CO   6\v 7 Therefore it is already altogether a defect in you, that you have lawsuits one with another. Why not rather be wronged? Why not rather be defrauded? 
1CO   6\v 7 Therefore it is already altogether a defect in you that you have lawsuits one with another. Why not rather be wronged? Why not rather be defrauded? 
1CO   6\v 11 Some of you were such, but you were washed. But you were sanctified. But you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus, and in the Spirit of our God. 
1CO   6\v 11 Some of you were such, but you were washed. You were sanctified. You were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus, and in the Spirit of our God. 
1CO   6\v 13 “Foods for the belly, and the belly for foods,” but God will bring to nothing both it and them. But the body is not for sexual immorality, but for the Lord; and the Lord for the body. 
1CO   6\v 13 “Foods for the belly, and the belly for foods,” but God will bring to nothing both it and them. But the body is not for sexual immorality, but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body. 
1CO   7\v 7 Yet I wish that all men were like me. However each man has his own gift from God, one of this kind, and another of that kind. 
1CO   7\v 7 Yet I wish that all men were like me. However, each man has his own gift from God, one of this kind, and another of that kind. 
1CO   7\v 9 But if they don’t have self-control, let them marry. For it’s better to marry than to burn. 
1CO   7\v 9 But if they don’t have self-control, let them marry. For it’s better to marry than to burn with passion. 
1CO   7\v 19 Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing, but the keeping of the commandments of God. 
1CO   7\v 19 Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing, but what matters is keeping God’s commandments. 
1CO   7\v 29 But I say this, brothers: the time is short, that from now on, both those who have wives may be as though they had none; 
1CO   7\v 29 But I say this, brothers: the time is short. From now on, both those who have wives may be as though they had none; 
1CO   7\v 35 This I say for your own profit; not that I may ensnare you, but for that which is appropriate, and that you may attend to the Lord without distraction. 
1CO   7\v 35 This I say for your own benefit, not that I may ensnare you, but for that which is appropriate, and that you may attend to the Lord without distraction. 
1CO   8\v 3 But if anyone loves God, the same is known by him. 
1CO   8\v 3 But anyone who loves God is known by him. 
1CO   8\v 5 For though there are things that are called “gods”, whether in the heavens or on earth; as there are many “gods” and many “lords”; 
1CO   8\v 5 For though there are things that are called “gods”, whether in the heavens or on earth—as there are many “gods” and many “lords”— 
1CO   8\v 7 However, that knowledge isn’t in all men. But some, with consciousness of the idol until now, eat as of a thing sacrificed to an idol, and their conscience, being weak, is defiled. 
1CO   8\v 7 However, that knowledge isn’t in all men. But some, with consciousness of an idol until now, eat as of a thing sacrificed to an idol, and their conscience, being weak, is defiled. 
1CO   9\v 13 Therefore if food causes my brother to stumble, I will eat no meat forever more, that I don’t cause my brother to stumble. 
1CO   9\v 13 Therefore, if food causes my brother to stumble, I will eat no meat forever more, that I don’t cause my brother to stumble. 
1CO  10\v 27 but I beat my body and bring it into submission, lest by any means, after I have preached to others, I myself should be rejected. 
1CO  10\v 27 but I beat my body and bring it into submission, lest by any means, after I have preached to others, I myself should be disqualified. 
1CO  10\v 31 Whether therefore you eat, or drink, or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God. 
1CO  10\v 31 Whether therefore you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God. 
1CO  11\v 17 But in giving you this command, I don’t praise you, that you come together not for the better but for the worse. 
1CO  11\v 17 But in giving you this command I don’t praise you, because you come together not for the better but for the worse. 
1CO  11\v 25 In the same way he also took the cup, after supper, saying, \wj “This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often as you drink, in memory of me.”\wj* 
1CO  11\v 25 In the same way he also took the cup after supper, saying, \wj “This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often as you drink, in memory of me.”\wj* 
1CO  12\v 9 to another faith, by the same Spirit; and to another gifts of healings, by the same Spirit; 
1CO  12\v 9 to another faith by the same Spirit, and to another gifts of healings by the same Spirit, 
1CO  12\v 23 Those parts of the body which we think to be less honorable, on those we bestow more abundant honor; and our unpresentable parts have more abundant propriety; 
1CO  12\v 23 Those parts of the body which we think to be less honorable, on those we bestow more abundant honor; and our unpresentable parts have more abundant modesty, 
1CO  13\v 1 If I speak with the languages of men and of angels, but don’t have love, I have become sounding brass, or a clanging cymbal. 
1CO  13\v 1 If I speak with the languages of men and of angels, but don’t have love, I have become sounding brass or a clanging cymbal. 
1CO  14\v 5 Now I desire to have you all speak with other languages, but rather that you would prophesy. For he is greater who prophesies than he who speaks with other languages, unless he interprets, that the assembly may be built up. 
1CO  14\v 5 Now I desire to have you all speak with other languages, but even more that you would prophesy. For he is greater who prophesies than he who speaks with other languages, unless he interprets, that the assembly may be built up. 
1CO  14\v 7 Even things without life, giving a voice, whether pipe or harp, if they didn’t give a distinction in the sounds, how would it be known what is piped or harped? 
1CO  14\v 7 Even lifeless things that make a sound, whether pipe or harp, if they didn’t give a distinction in the sounds, how would it be known what is piped or harped? 
1CO  14\v 15 What is it then? I will pray with the spirit, and I will pray with the understanding also. I will sing with the spirit, and I will sing with the understanding also. 
1CO  14\v 15 What should I do? I will pray with the spirit, and I will pray with the understanding also. I will sing with the spirit, and I will sing with the understanding also. 
1CO  14\v 19 However in the assembly I would rather speak five words with my understanding, that I might instruct others also, than ten thousand words in another language. 
1CO  14\v 19 However, in the assembly I would rather speak five words with my understanding, that I might instruct others also, than ten thousand words in another language. 
1CO  14\v 21 In the law it is written, “By men of strange languages and by the lips of strangers I will speak to this people. They won’t even hear me that way, says the Lord.”\x + \xo 14:21  \xt Isaiah 28:11-12\x* 
1CO  14\v 21 In the law it is written, “By men of strange languages and by the lips of strangers I will speak to this people. They won’t even listen to me that way, says the Lord.”\x + \xo 14:21  \xt Isaiah 28:11-12\x* 
1CO  14\v 27 If any man speaks in another language, let it be two, or at the most three, and in turn; and let one interpret. 
1CO  14\v 27 If any man speaks in another language, let there be two, or at the most three, and in turn; and let one interpret. 
1CO  14\v 29 Let the prophets speak, two or three, and let the others discern. 
1CO  14\v 29 Let two or three of the prophets speak, and let the others discern. 
1CO  14\v 31 For you all can prophesy one by one, that all may learn, and all may be exhorted. 
1CO  14\v 31 For you all can prophesy one by one, that all may learn and all may be exhorted. 
1CO  14\v 33 for God is not a God of confusion, but of peace, as in all the assemblies of the saints. 
1CO  14\v 33 for God is not a God of confusion but of peace, as in all the assemblies of the saints. 
1CO  14\v 37 If any man thinks himself to be a prophet, or spiritual, let him recognize the things which I write to you, that they are the commandment of the Lord. 
1CO  14\v 37 If any man thinks himself to be a prophet or spiritual, let him recognize the things which I write to you, that they are the commandment of the Lord. 
1CO  15\v 15 Yes, we are also found false witnesses of God, because we testified about God that he raised up Christ, whom he didn’t raise up, if it is so that the dead are not raised. 
1CO  15\v 15 Yes, we are also found false witnesses of God, because we testified about God that he raised up Christ, whom he didn’t raise up if it is true that the dead are not raised. 
1CO  15\v 23 But each in his own order: Christ the first fruits, then those who are Christ’s, at his coming. 
1CO  15\v 23 But each in his own order: Christ the first fruits, then those who are Christ’s at his coming. 
1CO  15\v 45 So also it is written, “The first man, Adam, became a living soul.” \x + \xo 15:45  \xt Genesis 2:7\x* The last Adam became a life-giving spirit. 
1CO  15\v 45 So also it is written, “The first man Adam became a living soul.” \x + \xo 15:45  \xt Genesis 2:7\x* The last Adam became a life-giving spirit. 
1CO  16\v 1 Now concerning the collection for the saints, as I commanded the assemblies of Galatia, you do likewise. 
1CO  16\v 1 Now concerning the collection for the saints: as I commanded the assemblies of Galatia, you do likewise. 
1CO  16\v 5 But I will come to you when I have passed through Macedonia, for I am passing through Macedonia. 
1CO  16\v 5 I will come to you when I have passed through Macedonia, for I am passing through Macedonia. 
1CO  16\v 19 The assemblies of Asia greet you. Aquila and Priscilla greet you much in the Lord, together with the assembly that is in their house. 
1CO  16\v 19 The assemblies of Asia greet you. Aquila and Priscilla greet you warmly in the Lord, together with the assembly that is in their house. 
2CO   1\v 1 Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus through the will of God, and Timothy our brother, to the assembly of God which is at Corinth, with all the saints who are in the whole of Achaia: 
2CO   1\v 1 Paul, an apostle of Christ\f + \fr 1:1  \ft “Christ” means “Anointed One”.\f* Jesus through the will of God, and Timothy our brother, to the assembly of God which is at Corinth, with all the saints who are in the whole of Achaia: 
2CO   1\v 3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort; 
2CO   1\v 3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort, 
2CO   1\v 13 For we write no other things to you than what you read or even acknowledge, and I hope you will acknowledge to the end, 
2CO   1\v 13 For we write no other things to you than what you read or even acknowledge, and I hope you will acknowledge to the end— 
2CO   1\v 17 When I therefore was thus determined, did I show fickleness? Or the things that I purpose, do I purpose according to the flesh, that with me there should be the “Yes, yes” and the “No, no?” 
2CO   1\v 17 When I therefore planned this, did I show fickleness? Or the things that I plan, do I plan according to the flesh, that with me there should be the “Yes, yes” and the “No, no?” 
2CO   1\v 19 For the Son of God, Jesus Christ, who was preached among you by us, by me, Silvanus, and Timothy, was not “Yes and no,” but in him is “Yes.” 
2CO   1\v 19 For the Son of God, Jesus Christ, who was preached among you by us—by me, Silvanus, and Timothy—was not “Yes and no,” but in him is “Yes.” 
2CO   2\v 3 And I wrote this very thing to you, so that, when I came, I wouldn’t have sorrow from them of whom I ought to rejoice; having confidence in you all, that my joy would be shared by all of you. 
2CO   2\v 3 And I wrote this very thing to you, so that when I came, I wouldn’t have sorrow from them of whom I ought to rejoice; having confidence in you all that my joy would be shared by all of you. 
2CO   2\v 5 But if any has caused sorrow, he has caused sorrow, not to me, but in part (that I not press too heavily) to you all. 
2CO   2\v 5 But if any has caused sorrow, he has caused sorrow not to me, but in part (that I not press too heavily) to you all. 
2CO   2\v 7 so that on the contrary you should rather forgive him and comfort him, lest by any means such a one should be swallowed up with his excessive sorrow. 
2CO   2\v 7 so that, on the contrary, you should rather forgive him and comfort him, lest by any means such a one should be swallowed up with his excessive sorrow. 
2CO   2\v 13 I had no relief for my spirit, because I didn’t find Titus, my brother, but taking my leave of them, I went out into Macedonia. 
2CO   2\v 13 I had no relief for my spirit, because I didn’t find Titus my brother, but taking my leave of them, I went out into Macedonia. 
2CO   2\v 15 For we are a sweet aroma of Christ to God, in those who are saved and in those who perish: 
2CO   2\v 15 For we are a sweet aroma of Christ to God in those who are saved and in those who perish: 
2CO   3\v 5 not that we are sufficient of ourselves, to account anything as from ourselves; but our sufficiency is from God, 
2CO   3\v 5 not that we are sufficient of ourselves to account anything as from ourselves; but our sufficiency is from God, 
2CO   3\v 13 and not as Moses, who put a veil on his face, that the children of Israel wouldn’t look steadfastly on the end of that which was passing away. 
2CO   3\v 13 and not as Moses, who put a veil on his face so that the children of Israel wouldn’t look steadfastly on the end of that which was passing away. 
2CO   3\v 17 Now the Lord is the Spirit and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty. 
2CO   3\v 17 Now the Lord is the Spirit; and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty. 
2CO   4\v 1 Therefore seeing we have this ministry, even as we obtained mercy, we don’t faint. 
2CO   4\v 1 Therefore, seeing we have this ministry, even as we obtained mercy, we don’t faint. 
2CO   4\v 7 But we have this treasure in clay vessels, that the exceeding greatness of the power may be of God, and not from ourselves. 
2CO   4\v 7 But we have this treasure in clay vessels, that the exceeding greatness of the power may be of God and not from ourselves. 
2CO   4\v 13 But having the same spirit of faith, according to that which is written, “I believed, and therefore I spoke.”\x + \xo 4:13  \xt Psalm 116:10\x* We also believe, and therefore we also speak; 
2CO   4\v 13 But having the same spirit of faith, according to that which is written, “I believed, and therefore I spoke.”\x + \xo 4:13  \xt Psalm 116:10\x* We also believe, and therefore we also speak, 
2CO   6\v 21 For him who knew no sin he made to be sin on our behalf; so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. 
2CO   6\v 21 For him who knew no sin he made to be sin on our behalf, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. 
2CO   6\v 1 Working together, we entreat also that you do not receive the grace of God in vain, 
2CO   6\v 1 Working together, we entreat also that you do not receive the grace of God in vain. 
2CO   6\v 5 in beatings, in imprisonments, in riots, in labors, in watchings, in fastings; 
2CO   6\v 5 in beatings, in imprisonments, in riots, in labors, in watchings, in fastings, 
2CO   6\v 7 in the word of truth, in the power of God; by the armor of righteousness on the right hand and on the left, 
2CO   6\v 7 in the word of truth, in the power of God, by the armor of righteousness on the right hand and on the left, 
2CO   6\v 9 as unknown, and yet well known; as dying, and behold, we live; as punished, and not killed; 
2CO   6\v 9 as unknown and yet well known, as dying and behold—we live, as punished and not killed, 
2CO   6\v 13 Now in return, I speak as to my children: you also open your hearts. 
2CO   6\v 13 Now in return—I speak as to my children—you also open your hearts. 
2CO   6\v 11 For behold, this same thing, that you were grieved in a godly way, what earnest care it worked in you. Yes, what defense, indignation, fear, longing, zeal, and vengeance! In everything you demonstrated yourselves to be pure in the matter. 
2CO   6\v 11 For behold, this same thing, that you were grieved in a godly way, what earnest care it worked in you. Yes, what defense, indignation, fear, longing, zeal, and vindication! In everything you demonstrated yourselves to be pure in the matter. 
2CO   8\v 7 But as you abound in everything, in faith, utterance, knowledge, all earnestness, and in your love to us, see that you also abound in this grace. 
2CO   8\v 7 But as you abound in everything—in faith, utterance, knowledge, all earnestness, and in your love to us—see that you also abound in this grace. 
2CO   9\v 3 But I have sent the brothers that our boasting on your behalf may not be in vain in this respect, that, just as I said, you may be prepared, 
2CO   9\v 3 But I have sent the brothers so that our boasting on your behalf may not be in vain in this respect, that, just as I said, you may be prepared, 
2CO   9\v 11 you being enriched in everything to all generosity, which produces thanksgiving to God through us. 
2CO   9\v 11 you being enriched in everything for all generosity, which produces thanksgiving to God through us. 
2CO  11\v 21 I speak by way of disparagement, as though we had been weak. Yet in whatever way anyone is bold (I speak in foolishness), I am bold also. 
2CO  11\v 21 To my shame, I speak as though we had been weak. Yet in whatever way anyone is bold (I speak in foolishness), I am bold also. 
2CO  12\v 1 It is doubtless not profitable for me to boast. For I will come to visions and revelations of the Lord. 
2CO  12\v 1 It is doubtless not profitable for me to boast, but I will come to visions and revelations of the Lord. 
2CO  12\v 13 For what is there in which you were made inferior to the rest of the assemblies, unless it is that I myself was not a burden to you? Forgive me this wrong. 
2CO  12\v 13 For what is there in which you were made inferior to the rest of the assemblies, unless it is that I myself was not a burden to you? Forgive me this wrong! 
2CO  13\v 3 seeing that you seek a proof of Christ who speaks in me; who toward you is not weak, but is powerful in you. 
2CO  13\v 3 seeing that you seek a proof of Christ who speaks in me who is not weak, but is powerful in you. 
2CO  13\v 7 Now I pray to God that you do no evil; not that we may appear approved, but that you may do that which is honorable, though we are as reprobate. 
2CO  13\v 7 Now I pray to God that you do no evil; not that we may appear approved, but that you may do that which is honorable, though we may seem to have failed. 
GAL   1\v 1 Paul, an apostle—not from men, nor through man, but through Jesus Christ, and God the Father, who raised him from the dead— 
GAL   1\v 1 Paul, an apostle—not from men, nor through man, but through Jesus Christ,\f + \fr 1:1  \ft “Christ” means “Anointed One”.\f* and God the Father, who raised him from the dead— 
GAL   1\v 15 But when it was the good pleasure of God, who separated me from my mother’s womb and called me through his grace 
GAL   1\v 15 But when it was the good pleasure of God, who separated me from my mother’s womb and called me through his grace, 
GAL   1\v 23 but they only heard: “He who once persecuted us now preaches the faith that he once tried to destroy.” 
GAL   1\v 23 but they only heard, “He who once persecuted us now preaches the faith that he once tried to destroy.” 
GAL   2\v 15 “We, being Jews by nature, and not Gentile sinners, 
GAL   2\v 15 “We, being Jews by nature and not Gentile sinners, 
GAL   2\v 19 For I, through the law, died to the law, that I might live to God. 
GAL   2\v 19 For I through the law died to the law, that I might live to God. 
GAL   5\v 5 For we, through the Spirit, by faith wait for the hope of righteousness. 
GAL   5\v 5 For we through the Spirit, by faith wait for the hope of righteousness. 
GAL   5\v 13 For you, brothers, were called for freedom. Only don’t use your freedom for gain to the flesh, but through love be servants to one another. 
GAL   5\v 13 For you, brothers, were called for freedom. Only don’t use your freedom an an opportunity for the flesh, but through love be servants to one another. 
GAL   6\v 1 Brothers, even if a man is caught in some fault, you who are spiritual must restore such a one in a spirit of gentleness; looking to yourself so that you also aren’t tempted. 
GAL   6\v 1 Brothers, even if a man is caught in some fault, you who are spiritual must restore such a one in a spirit of gentleness, looking to yourself so that you also aren’t tempted. 
GAL   6\v 9 Let’s not be weary in doing good, for we will reap in due season, if we don’t give up. 
GAL   6\v 9 Let’s not be weary in doing good, for we will reap in due season if we don’t give up. 
GAL   6\v 13 For even they who receive circumcision don’t keep the law themselves, but they desire to have you circumcised, that they may boast in your flesh. 
GAL   6\v 13 For even they who receive circumcision don’t keep the law themselves, but they desire to have you circumcised, so that they may boast in your flesh. 
EPH   1\v 1 Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus through the will of God, to the saints who are at Ephesus, and the faithful in Christ Jesus: 
EPH   1\v 1 Paul, an apostle of Christ\f + \fr 1:1  \ft “Christ” means “Anointed One”.\f* Jesus through the will of God, to the saints who are at Ephesus, and the faithful in Christ Jesus: 
EPH   1\v 7 in whom we have our redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace, 
EPH   1\v 7 In him we have our redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace 
EPH   1\v 15 For this cause I also, having heard of the faith in the Lord Jesus which is among you, and the love which you have toward all the saints, 
EPH   1\v 15 For this cause I also, having heard of the faith in the Lord Jesus which is among you and the love which you have toward all the saints, 
EPH   4\v 21 to him be the glory in the assembly and in Christ Jesus to all generations forever and ever. Amen. 
EPH   4\v 21 to him be the glory in the assembly and in Christ Jesus to all generations, forever and ever. Amen. 
EPH   4\v 21 if indeed you heard him, and were taught in him, even as truth is in Jesus: 
EPH   4\v 21 if indeed you heard him and were taught in him, even as truth is in Jesus: 
EPH   4\v 25 Therefore putting away falsehood, speak truth each one with his neighbor. For we are members of one another. 
EPH   4\v 25 Therefore, putting away falsehood, speak truth each one with his neighbor, for we are members of one another. 
EPH   5\v 5 Know this for sure, that no sexually immoral person, nor unclean person, nor covetous man, who is an idolater, has any inheritance in the Kingdom of Christ and God. 
EPH   5\v 5 Know this for sure, that no sexually immoral person, nor unclean person, nor covetous man (who is an idolater), has any inheritance in the Kingdom of Christ and God. 
EPH   5\v 17 Therefore don’t be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is. 
EPH   5\v 17 Therefore, don’t be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is. 
EPH   5\v 25 Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the assembly, and gave himself up for it; 
EPH   5\v 25 Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the assembly and gave himself up for her, 
EPH   5\v 27 that he might present the assembly to himself gloriously, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing; but that it should be holy and without defect. 
EPH   5\v 27 that he might present the assembly to himself gloriously, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that she should be holy and without defect. 
EPH   5\v 29 For no man ever hated his own flesh; but nourishes and cherishes it, even as the Lord also does the assembly; 
EPH   5\v 29 For no man ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, even as the Lord also does the assembly, 
EPH   5\v 31 “For this cause a man will leave his father and mother, and will be joined to his wife. Then the two will become one flesh.”\x + \xo 5:31  \xt Genesis 2:24\x* 
EPH   5\v 31 “For this cause a man will leave his father and mother and will be joined to his wife. Then the two will become one flesh.”\x + \xo 5:31  \xt Genesis 2:24\x* 
EPH   6\v 7 with good will doing service as to the Lord, and not to men, 
EPH   6\v 7 with good will doing service as to the Lord and not to men, 
EPH   6\v 19 on my behalf, that utterance may be given to me in opening my mouth, to make known with boldness the mystery of the Good News, 
EPH   6\v 19 Pray for me, that utterance may be given to me in opening my mouth, to make known with boldness the mystery of the Good News, 
PHP   1\v 1 Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ; 
PHP   1\v 1 Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ,\f + \fr 1:1  \ft “Christ” means “Anointed One”.\f* to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are at Philippi, with the overseers\f + \fr 1:1  \ft or, superintendents, or bishops\f* and servants:\f + \fr 1:1  \ft Or, deacons\f* 
PHP   1\v 11 being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God. 
PHP   1\v 11 being filled with the fruits of righteousness which are through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God. 
PHP   1\v 19 For I know that this will turn out to my salvation, through your prayers and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ, 
PHP   1\v 19 For I know that this will turn out to my salvation through your prayers and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ, 
PHP   2\v 13 For it is God who works in you both to will and to work, for his good pleasure. 
PHP   2\v 13 For it is God who works in you both to will and to work for his good pleasure. 
PHP   2\v 17 Yes, and if I am poured out on the sacrifice and service of your faith, I rejoice, and rejoice with you all. 
PHP   2\v 17 Yes, and if I am poured out on the sacrifice and service of your faith, I am glad and rejoice with you all. 
PHP   2\v 25 But I counted it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother, fellow worker, fellow soldier, and your apostle and servant of my need, 
PHP   2\v 25 But I thought it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother, fellow worker, fellow soldier, and your apostle and servant of my need, 
PHP   2\v 27 For indeed he was sick, nearly to death, but God had mercy on him, and not on him only, but on me also, that I might not have sorrow on sorrow. 
PHP   2\v 27 For indeed he was sick nearly to death, but God had mercy on him, and not on him only, but on me also, that I might not have sorrow on sorrow. 
PHP   3\v 13 Brothers, I don’t regard myself as yet having taken hold, but one thing I do: forgetting the things which are behind, and stretching forward to the things which are before, 
PHP   3\v 13 Brothers, I don’t regard myself as yet having taken hold, but one thing I do: forgetting the things which are behind and stretching forward to the things which are before, 
PHP   4\v 9 The things which you learned, received, heard, and saw in me: do these things, and the God of peace will be with you. 
PHP   4\v 9 Do the things which you learned, received, heard, and saw in me, and the God of peace will be with you. 
PHP   4\v 13 I can do all things through Christ, who strengthens me. 
PHP   4\v 13 I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. 
COL   1\v 1 Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus through the will of God, and Timothy our brother, 
COL   1\v 1 Paul, an apostle of Christ\f + \fr 1:1  \ft “Christ” means “Anointed One”.\f* Jesus through the will of God, and Timothy our brother, 
COL   1\v 7 even as you learned of Epaphras our beloved fellow servant, who is a faithful servant of Christ on your\f + \fr 1:7  \ft NU reads \fqa our\f* behalf, 
COL   1\v 7 even as you learned from Epaphras our beloved fellow servant, who is a faithful servant of Christ on your\f + \fr 1:7  \ft NU reads \fqa our\f* behalf, 
COL   2\v 1 For I desire to have you know how greatly I struggle for you, and for those at Laodicea, and for as many as have not seen my face in the flesh; 
COL   2\v 1 For I desire to have you know how greatly I struggle for you and for those at Laodicea, and for as many as have not seen my face in the flesh; 
COL   2\v 7 rooted and built up in him, and established in the faith, even as you were taught, abounding in it in thanksgiving. 
COL   2\v 7 rooted and built up in him and established in the faith, even as you were taught, abounding in it in thanksgiving. 
COL   3\v 23 These things indeed appear like wisdom in self-imposed worship, humility, and severity to the body; but aren’t of any value against the indulgence of the flesh. 
COL   3\v 23 These things indeed appear like wisdom in self-imposed worship, humility, and severity to the body, but aren’t of any value against the indulgence of the flesh. 
COL   3\v 7 You also once walked in those, when you lived in them; 
COL   3\v 7 You also once walked in those, when you lived in them, 
COL   3\v 17 Whatever you do, in word or in deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father, through him. 
COL   3\v 17 Whatever you do, in word or in deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him. 
COL   3\v 23 And whatever you do, work heartily, as for the Lord, and not for men, 
COL   3\v 23 And whatever you do, work heartily, as for the Lord and not for men, 
COL   4\v 15 Greet the brothers who are in Laodicea, and Nymphas, and the assembly that is in his house. 
COL   4\v 15 Greet the brothers who are in Laodicea, with Nymphas and the assembly that is in his house. 
COL   4\v 18 The salutation of me, Paul, with my own hand: remember my bonds. Grace be with you. Amen. COL   4\v 18 I, Paul, write this greeting with my own hand. Remember my chains. Grace be with you. Amen. 1TH   1\v 1 Paul, Silvanus, and Timothy, to the assembly of the Thessalonians in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ: Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
1TH   1\v 1 Paul, Silvanus, and Timothy, to the assembly of the Thessalonians in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ:\f + \fr 1:1  \ft “Christ” means “Anointed One”.\f* Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
1TH   1\v 5 and that our Good News came to you not in word only, but also in power, and in the Holy Spirit, and with much assurance. You know what kind of men we showed ourselves to be among you for your sake. 
1TH   1\v 5 and that our Good News came to you not in word only, but also in power, and in the Holy Spirit and with much assurance. You know what kind of men we showed ourselves to be among you for your sake. 
1TH   1\v 9 For they themselves report concerning us what kind of a reception we had from you, and how you turned to God from idols, to serve a living and true God, 
1TH   1\v 9 For they themselves report concerning us what kind of a reception we had from you, and how you turned to God from idols to serve a living and true God, 
1TH   2\v 13 For this cause we also thank God without ceasing, that when you received from us the word of the message of God, you accepted it not as the word of men, but as it is in truth, the word of God, which also works in you who believe. 
1TH   2\v 13 For this cause we also thank God without ceasing that when you received from us the word of the message of God, you accepted it not as the word of men, but as it is in truth, God’s word, which also works in you who believe. 
1TH   2\v 17 But we, brothers, being bereaved of you for a short season, in presence, not in heart, tried even harder to see your face with great desire, 
1TH   2\v 17 But we, brothers, being bereaved of you for a short season in presence, not in heart, tried even harder to see your face with great desire, 
1TH   3\v 7 for this cause, brothers, we were comforted over you in all our distress and affliction through your faith. 
1TH   3\v 7 For this cause, brothers, we were comforted over you in all our distress and affliction through your faith. 
1TH   4\v 11 and that you make it your ambition to lead a quiet life, and to do your own business, and to work with your own hands, even as we instructed you; 
1TH   4\v 11 and that you make it your ambition to lead a quiet life, and to do your own business, and to work with your own hands, even as we instructed you, 
1TH   4\v 17 then we who are alive, who are left, will be caught up together with them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air. So we will be with the Lord forever. 
1TH   4\v 17 then we who are alive, who are left, will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. So we will be with the Lord forever. 
2TH   1\v 1 Paul, Silvanus, and Timothy, to the assembly of the Thessalonians in God our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ: 
2TH   1\v 1 Paul, Silvanus, and Timothy, to the assembly of the Thessalonians in God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ: 
2TH   1\v 7 and to give relief to you who are afflicted with us, when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with his mighty angels in flaming fire, 
2TH   1\v 7 and to give relief to you who are afflicted with us when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with his mighty angels in flaming fire, 
2TH   1\v 11 To this end we also pray always for you, that our God may count you worthy of your calling, and fulfill every desire of goodness and work of faith with power, 
2TH   1\v 11 To this end we also pray always for you that our God may count you worthy of your calling, and fulfill every desire of goodness and work of faith with power, 
2TH   2\v 3 Let no one deceive you in any way. For it will not be, unless the rebellion\f + \fr 2:3  \ft or, \fqa falling away\ft , or, \fqa defection\f* comes first, and the man of sin is revealed, the son of destruction, 
2TH   2\v 3 Let no one deceive you in any way. For it will not be unless the rebellion\f + \fr 2:3  \ft or, \fqa falling away\ft , or, \fqa defection\f* comes first, and the man of sin is revealed, the son of destruction. 
2TH   2\v 5 Don’t you remember that, when I was still with you, I told you these things? 
2TH   2\v 5 Don’t you remember that when I was still with you, I told you these things? 
2TH   2\v 11 Because of this, God sends them a working of error, that they should believe a lie; 
2TH   2\v 11 Because of this, God sends them a powerful delusion, that they should believe a lie, 
2TH   3\v 5 May the Lord direct your hearts into God’s love, and into the perseverance of Christ. 
2TH   3\v 5 May the Lord direct your hearts into God’s love and into the perseverance of Christ. 
2TH   3\v 9 not because we don’t have the right, but to make ourselves an example to you, that you should imitate us. 
2TH   3\v 9 This was not because we don’t have the right, but to make ourselves an example to you, that you should imitate us. 
2TH   3\v 17 The greeting of me, Paul, with my own hand, which is the sign in every letter: this is how I write. 
2TH   3\v 17 I, Paul, write this greeting with my own hand, which is the sign in every letter. This is how I write. 
1TI   1\v 1 Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ according to the commandment of God our Savior and the Lord Jesus Christ\f + \fr 1:1  \ft NU reads \fqa Christ Jesus and omits \fqa the Lord. \f* our hope; 
1TI   1\v 1 Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ according to the commandment of God our Savior and the Lord Jesus Christ\f + \fr 1:1  \ft NU reads \fqa Christ Jesus and omits \fqa the Lord. \f* our hope, 
1TI   1\v 5 but the goal of this command is love, out of a pure heart and a good conscience and sincere faith, 
1TI   1\v 5 But the goal of this command is love from a pure heart, a good conscience, and sincere faith, 
1TI   1\v 7 desiring to be teachers of the law, though they understand neither what they say, nor about what they strongly affirm. 
1TI   1\v 7 desiring to be teachers of the law, though they understand neither what they say nor about what they strongly affirm. 
1TI   1\v 13 although I used to be a blasphemer, a persecutor, and insolent. However, I obtained mercy, because I did it ignorantly in unbelief. 
1TI   1\v 13 although I used to be a blasphemer, a persecutor, and insolent. However, I obtained mercy because I did it ignorantly in unbelief. 
1TI   2\v 1 I exhort therefore, first of all, that petitions, prayers, intercessions, and givings of thanks be made for all men: 
1TI   2\v 1 I exhort therefore, first of all, that petitions, prayers, intercessions, and givings of thanks be made for all men, 
1TI   2\v 5 For there is one God, and one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus, 
1TI   2\v 5 For there is one God and one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus, 
1TI   2\v 9 In the same way, that women also adorn themselves in decent clothing, with modesty and propriety, not just\f + \fr 2:9  \ft The word “just” is inserted here in English to preserve the meaning of the whole original Greek sentence in context. The word for “not” is the negative particle “μη” which denies an expected idea, as opposed to the usual word for “not” (ου) which denies a fact. Thus “μη” in this context is denying an expected idea (that women can be properly dressed without good works).\f* with braided hair, gold, pearls, or expensive clothing, 
1TI   2\v 9 In the same way, that women also adorn themselves in decent clothing, with modesty and propriety, not\f + \fr 2:9  \ft The word for “not” is the negative particle “μη” which denies an expected idea, as opposed to the usual word for “not” (ου) which denies a fact. Thus “μη” in this context is denying an expected idea (that women can be properly dressed without good works).\f* with braided hair, gold, pearls, or expensive clothing, 
1TI   3\v 15 but she will be saved through her childbearing, if they continue in faith, love, and sanctification with sobriety. 
1TI   3\v 15 but she will be saved through her childbearing, if they continue in faith, love, and holiness with sobriety. 
1TI   3\v 5 (but how could someone who doesn’t know how to rule one’s own house take care of God’s assembly?) 
1TI   3\v 5 (for how could someone who doesn’t know how to rule his own house take care of God’s assembly?) 
1TI   3\v 13 For those who have served well\f + \fr 3:13  \ft or, served well as deacons\f* gain for themselves a good standing, and great boldness in the faith which is in Christ Jesus. 
1TI   3\v 13 For those who have served well\f + \fr 3:13  \ft or, served well as deacons\f* gain for themselves a good standing and great boldness in the faith which is in Christ Jesus. 
1TI   5\v 5 Now she who is a widow indeed and desolate, has her hope set on God, and continues in petitions and prayers night and day. 
1TI   5\v 5 Now she who is a widow indeed and desolate, has her hope set on God and continues in petitions and prayers night and day. 
1TI   5\v 19 Don’t receive an accusation against an elder, except at the word of two or three witnesses. 
1TI   5\v 19 Don’t receive an accusation against an elder except at the word of two or three witnesses. 
1TI   6\v 3 If anyone teaches a different doctrine, and doesn’t consent to sound words, the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the doctrine which is according to godliness, 
1TI   6\v 3 If anyone teaches a different doctrine and doesn’t consent to sound words, the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the doctrine which is according to godliness, 
1TI   6\v 13 I command you before God, who gives life to all things, and before Christ Jesus, who before Pontius Pilate testified the good confession, 
1TI   6\v 13 I command you before God who gives life to all things, and before Christ Jesus who before Pontius Pilate testified the good confession, 
1TI   6\v 15 which in its own times he will show, who is the blessed and only Ruler, the King of kings, and Lord of lords. 
1TI   6\v 15 which at the right time he will show, who is the blessed and only Ruler, the King of kings and Lord of lords. 
1TI   6\v 17 Charge those who are rich in this present world that they not be arrogant, nor have their hope set on the uncertainty of riches, but on the living God, who richly provides us with everything to enjoy; 
1TI   6\v 17 Charge those who are rich in this present age that they not be arrogant, nor have their hope set on the uncertainty of riches, but on the living God, who richly provides us with everything to enjoy; 
2TI   1\v 1 Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of God, according to the promise of the life which is in Christ Jesus, 
2TI   1\v 1 Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ\f + \fr 1:1  \ft “Christ” means “Anointed One”.\f* through the will of God, according to the promise of the life which is in Christ Jesus, 
2TI   1\v 5 having been reminded of the sincere faith that is in you, which lived first in your grandmother Lois, and your mother Eunice, and, I am persuaded, in you also. 
2TI   1\v 5 having been reminded of the sincere faith that is in you, which lived first in your grandmother Lois and your mother Eunice and, I am persuaded, in you also. 
2TI   2\v 19 However God’s firm foundation stands, having this seal, “The Lord knows those who are his,”\x + \xo 2:19  \xt Numbers 16:5\x* and, “Let every one who names the name of the Lord\f + \fr 2:19  \ft TR reads “Christ” instead of “the Lord”\f* depart from unrighteousness.” 
2TI   2\v 19 However, God’s firm foundation stands, having this seal: “The Lord knows those who are his,”\x + \xo 2:19  \xt Numbers 16:5\x* and, “Let every one who names the name of the Lord\f + \fr 2:19  \ft TR reads “Christ” instead of “the Lord”\f* depart from unrighteousness.” 
2TI   2\v 25 in gentleness correcting those who oppose him: perhaps God may give them repentance leading to a full knowledge of the truth, 
2TI   2\v 25 in gentleness correcting those who oppose him. Perhaps God may give them repentance leading to a full knowledge of the truth, 
2TI   3\v 5 holding a form of godliness, but having denied its power. Turn away from these, also. 
2TI   3\v 5 holding a form of godliness but having denied its power. Turn away from these, also. 
2TI   3\v 7 always learning, and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth. 
2TI   3\v 7 always learning and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth. 
2TI   3\v 11 persecutions, and sufferings: those things that happened to me at Antioch, Iconium, and Lystra. I endured those persecutions. The Lord delivered me out of them all. 
2TI   3\v 11 persecutions, and sufferings—those things that happened to me at Antioch, Iconium, and Lystra. I endured those persecutions. The Lord delivered me out of them all. 
2TI   3\v 15 From infancy, you have known the holy Scriptures which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith, which is in Christ Jesus. 
2TI   3\v 15 From infancy, you have known the holy Scriptures which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. 
2TI   4\v 11 Only Luke is with me. Take Mark, and bring him with you, for he is useful to me for service. 
2TI   4\v 11 Only Luke is with me. Take Mark and bring him with you, for he is useful to me for service. 
2TI   4\v 13 Bring the cloak that I left at Troas with Carpus when you come, and the books, especially the parchments. 
2TI   4\v 13 Bring the cloak that I left at Troas with Carpus when you come—and the books, especially the parchments. 
2TI   4\v 15 of whom you also must beware; for he greatly opposed our words. 
2TI   4\v 15 Beware of him, for he greatly opposed our words. 
TIT   1\v 1 Paul, a servant of God, and an apostle of Jesus Christ, according to the faith of God’s chosen ones, and the knowledge of the truth which is according to godliness, 
TIT   1\v 1 Paul, a servant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ,\f + \fr 1:1  \ft “Christ” means “Anointed One”.\f* according to the faith of God’s chosen ones and the knowledge of the truth which is according to godliness, 
TIT   1\v 3 but in his own time revealed his word in the message with which I was entrusted according to the commandment of God our Savior; 
TIT   1\v 3 but in his own time revealed his word in the message with which I was entrusted according to the commandment of God our Savior, 
TIT   1\v 5 I left you in Crete for this reason, that you would set in order the things that were lacking and appoint elders in every city, as I directed you, 
TIT   1\v 5 I left you in Crete for this reason, that you would set in order the things that were lacking and appoint elders in every city, as I directed you— 
TIT   1\v 15 To the pure, all things are pure; but to those who are defiled and unbelieving, nothing is pure; but both their mind and their conscience are defiled. 
TIT   1\v 15 To the pure, all things are pure, but to those who are defiled and unbelieving, nothing is pure; but both their mind and their conscience are defiled. 
TIT   3\v 11 knowing that such a one is perverted and sins, being self-condemned. 
TIT   3\v 11 knowing that such a one is perverted and sinful, being self-condemned. 
TIT   3\v 13 Send Zenas, the lawyer, and Apollos on their journey speedily, that nothing may be lacking for them. 
TIT   3\v 13 Send Zenas the lawyer and Apollos on their journey speedily, that nothing may be lacking for them. 
TIT   3\v 15 All who are with me greet you. Greet those who love us in faith. Grace be with you all. Amen. TIT   3\v 15 All who are with me greet you. Greet those who love us in faith. 
PHM   1\v 1 Paul, a prisoner of Christ Jesus, and Timothy our brother, to Philemon, our beloved fellow worker, 
PHM   1\v 1 Paul, a prisoner of Christ\f + \fr 1:1  \ft “Christ” means “Anointed One”.\f* Jesus, and Timothy our brother, to Philemon, our beloved fellow worker, 
PHM   1\v 5 hearing of your love and of the faith which you have toward the Lord Jesus, and toward all the saints, 
PHM   1\v 5 hearing of your love and of the faith which you have toward the Lord Jesus and toward all the saints, 
PHM   1\v 9 yet for love’s sake I rather beg, being such a one as Paul, the aged, but also a prisoner of Jesus Christ. 
PHM   1\v 9 yet for love’s sake I rather appeal to you, being such a one as Paul, the aged, but also a prisoner of Jesus Christ. 
PHM   1\v 15 For perhaps he was therefore separated from you for a while, that you would have him forever, 
PHM   1\v 15 For perhaps he was therefore separated from you for a while that you would have him forever, 
HEB   4\v 7 he again defines a certain day, today, saying through David so long a time afterward (just as has been said), 
HEB   4\v 7 he again defines a certain day, “today”, saying through David so long a time afterward (just as has been said), 
HEB   6\v 19 This hope we have as an anchor of the soul, a hope both sure and steadfast and entering into that which is within the veil; 
HEB   6\v 19 This hope we have as an anchor of the soul, a hope both sure and steadfast and entering into that which is within the veil, 
HEB   7\v 5 They indeed of the sons of Levi who receive the priest’s office have a commandment to take tithes of the people according to the law, that is, of their brothers, though these have come out of the body of Abraham, 
HEB   7\v 5 They indeed of the sons of Levi who receive the priest’s office have a commandment to take tithes from the people according to the law, that is, of their brothers, though these have come out of the body of Abraham, 
HEB   8\v 1 Now in the things which we are saying, the main point is this. We have such a high priest, who sat down on the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in the heavens, 
HEB   8\v 1 Now in the things which we are saying, the main point is this: we have such a high priest, who sat down on the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in the heavens, 
HEB   8\v 9 not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers, 
HEB   8\v 9 not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers 
HEB   8\v 11 They will not teach every man his fellow citizen,\f + \fr 8:11  \ft TR reads “neighbor” instead of “fellow citizen”\f* 
HEB   8\v 11 They will not teach every man his fellow citizen\f + \fr 8:11  \ft TR reads “neighbor” instead of “fellow citizen”\f* 
HEB   9\v 13 In that he says, “A new covenant”, he has made the first old. But that which is becoming old and grows aged is near to vanishing away. 
HEB   9\v 13 In that he says, “A new covenant”, he has made the first obsolete. But that which is becoming obsolete and grows aged is near to vanishing away. 
HEB   9\v 7 but into the second the high priest alone, once in the year, not without blood, which he offers for himself, and for the errors of the people. 
HEB   9\v 7 but into the second the high priest alone, once in the year, not without blood, which he offers for himself and for the errors of the people. 
HEB   9\v 21 Moreover he sprinkled the tabernacle and all the vessels of the ministry in the same way with the blood. 
HEB   9\v 21 He sprinkled the tabernacle and all the vessels of the ministry in the same way with the blood. 
HEB  10\v 11 Every priest indeed stands day by day serving and offering often the same sacrifices which can never take away sins, 
HEB  10\v 11 Every priest indeed stands day by day serving and offering often the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins, 
HEB  10\v 33 partly, being exposed to both reproaches and oppressions; and partly, becoming partakers with those who were treated so. 
HEB  10\v 33 partly, being exposed to both reproaches and oppressions, and partly, becoming partakers with those who were treated so. 
HEB  11\v 3 By faith, we understand that the universe has been framed by the word of God, so that what is seen has not been made out of things which are visible. 
HEB  11\v 3 By faith we understand that the universe has been framed by the word of God, so that what is seen has not been made out of things which are visible. 
HEB  11\v 5 By faith, Enoch was taken away, so that he wouldn’t see death, and he was not found, because God translated him. For he has had testimony given to him that before his translation he had been well pleasing to God. 
HEB  11\v 5 By faith Enoch was taken away, so that he wouldn’t see death, and he was not found, because God translated him. For he has had testimony given to him that before his translation he had been well pleasing to God. 
HEB  11\v 7 By faith, Noah, being warned about things not yet seen, moved with godly fear,\f + \fr 11:7  \ft or, reverence\f* prepared a ship for the saving of his house, through which he condemned the world, and became heir of the righteousness which is according to faith. 
HEB  11\v 7 By faith Noah, being warned about things not yet seen, moved with godly fear,\f + \fr 11:7  \ft or, reverence\f* prepared a ship for the saving of his house, through which he condemned the world and became heir of the righteousness which is according to faith. 
HEB  11\v 9 By faith, he lived as an alien in the land of promise, as in a land not his own, dwelling in tents with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise. 
HEB  11\v 9 By faith he lived as an alien in the land of promise, as in a land not his own, dwelling in tents with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise. 
HEB  11\v 11 By faith, even Sarah herself received power to conceive, and she bore a child when she was past age, since she counted him faithful who had promised. 
HEB  11\v 11 By faith even Sarah herself received power to conceive, and she bore a child when she was past age, since she counted him faithful who had promised. 
HEB  11\v 17 By faith, Abraham, being tested, offered up Isaac. Yes, he who had gladly received the promises was offering up his one and only son, 
HEB  11\v 17 By faith, Abraham, being tested, offered up Isaac. Yes, he who had gladly received the promises was offering up his only born\f + \fr 11:17  \ft The phrase “only born” is from the Greek word “μονογενη”, which is sometimes translated “only begotten” or “one and only”.\f* son, 
HEB  11\v 21 By faith, Jacob, when he was dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph, and worshiped, leaning on the top of his staff. 
HEB  11\v 21 By faith Jacob, when he was dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph, and worshiped, leaning on the top of his staff. 
HEB  11\v 23 By faith, Moses, when he was born, was hidden for three months by his parents, because they saw that he was a beautiful child, and they were not afraid of the king’s commandment. 
HEB  11\v 23 By faith Moses, when he was born, was hidden for three months by his parents, because they saw that he was a beautiful child; and they were not afraid of the king’s commandment. 
HEB  11\v 27 By faith, he left Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king; for he endured, as seeing him who is invisible. 
HEB  11\v 27 By faith he left Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king; for he endured, as seeing him who is invisible. 
HEB  11\v 29 By faith, they passed through the Red Sea as on dry land. When the Egyptians tried to do so, they were swallowed up. 
HEB  11\v 29 By faith they passed through the Red Sea as on dry land. When the Egyptians tried to do so, they were swallowed up. 
HEB  11\v 31 By faith, Rahab the prostitute didn’t perish with those who were disobedient, having received the spies in peace. 
HEB  11\v 31 By faith Rahab the prostitute didn’t perish with those who were disobedient, having received the spies in peace. 
HEB  11\v 39 These all, having had testimony given to them through their faith, didn’t receive the promise, 
HEB  11\v 39 These all, having been commended for their faith, didn’t receive the promise, 
HEB  12\v 9 Furthermore, we had the fathers of our flesh to chasten us, and we paid them respect. Shall we not much rather be in subjection to the Father of spirits, and live? 
HEB  12\v 9 Furthermore, we had the fathers of our flesh to chasten us, and we paid them respect. Shall we not much rather be in subjection to the Father of spirits and live? 
HEB  12\v 15 looking carefully lest there be any man who falls short of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you, and many be defiled by it, 
HEB  12\v 15 looking carefully lest there be any man who falls short of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you and many be defiled by it, 
HEB  13\v 9 Don’t be carried away by various and strange teachings, for it is good that the heart be established by grace, not by food, through which those who were so occupied were not benefited. 
HEB  13\v 9 Don’t be carried away by various and strange teachings, for it is good that the heart be established by grace, not by foods, through which those who were so occupied were not benefited. 
HEB  13\v 17 Obey your leaders and submit to them, for they watch on behalf of your souls, as those who will give account, that they may do this with joy, and not with groaning, for that would be unprofitable for you. 
HEB  13\v 17 Obey your leaders and submit to them, for they watch on behalf of your souls, as those who will give account, that they may do this with joy and not with groaning, for that would be unprofitable for you. 
JAM   1\v 1 James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes which are in the Dispersion: Greetings. 
JAM   1\v 1 James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ,\f + \fr 1:1  \ft “Christ” means “Anointed One”.\f* to the twelve tribes which are in the Dispersion: Greetings. 
JAM   1\v 9 But let the brother in humble circumstances glory in his high position; 
JAM   1\v 9 Let the brother in humble circumstances glory in his high position; 
JAM   1\v 11 For the sun arises with the scorching wind and withers the grass, and the flower in it falls, and the beauty of its appearance perishes. So the rich man will also fade away in his pursuits. 
JAM   1\v 11 For the sun arises with the scorching wind and withers the grass; and the flower in it falls, and the beauty of its appearance perishes. So the rich man will also fade away in his pursuits. 
JAM   1\v 17 Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom can be no variation, nor turning shadow. 
JAM   1\v 17 Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom can be no variation nor turning shadow. 
JAM   1\v 25 But he who looks into the perfect law of freedom and continues, not being a hearer who forgets, but a doer of the work, this man will be blessed in what he does. 
JAM   1\v 25 But he who looks into the perfect law of freedom and continues, not being a hearer who forgets but a doer of the work, this man will be blessed in what he does. 
JAM   2\v 1 My brothers, don’t hold the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ of glory with partiality. 
JAM   2\v 1 My brothers, don’t hold the faith of our glorious Lord Jesus Christ with partiality. 
JAM   2\v 5 Listen, my beloved brothers. Didn’t God choose those who are poor in this world to be rich in faith, and heirs of the Kingdom which he promised to those who love him? 
JAM   2\v 5 Listen, my beloved brothers. Didn’t God choose those who are poor in this world to be rich in faith and heirs of the Kingdom which he promised to those who love him? 
JAM   2\v 11 For he who said, “Do not commit adultery,”\x + \xo 2:11  \xt Exodus 20:14; Deuteronomy 5:18\x* also said, “Do not commit murder.”\x + \xo 2:11  \xt Exodus 20:13; Deuteronomy 5:17 \x* Now if you do not commit adultery, but murder, you have become a transgressor of the law. 
JAM   2\v 11 For he who said, “Do not commit adultery,”\x + \xo 2:11  \xt Exodus 20:14; Deuteronomy 5:18\x* also said, “Do not commit murder.”\x + \xo 2:11  \xt Exodus 20:13; Deuteronomy 5:17 \x* Now if you do not commit adultery but do murder, you have become a transgressor of the law. 
JAM   2\v 19 You believe that God is one. You do well. The demons also believe, and shudder. 
JAM   2\v 19 You believe that God is one. You do well. The demons also believe—and shudder. 
JAM   2\v 25 In the same way, wasn’t Rahab the prostitute also justified by works, in that she received the messengers and sent them out another way? 
JAM   2\v 25 In the same way, wasn’t Rahab the prostitute also justified by works when she received the messengers and sent them out another way? 
JAM   3\v 7 For every kind of animal, bird, creeping thing, and sea creature, is tamed, and has been tamed by mankind; 
JAM   3\v 7 For every kind of animal, bird, creeping thing, and sea creature is tamed, and has been tamed by mankind; 
JAM   4\v 9 Lament, mourn, and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning, and your joy to gloom. 
JAM   4\v 9 Lament, mourn, and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to gloom. 
JAM   4\v 11 Don’t speak against one another, brothers. He who speaks against a brother and judges his brother, speaks against the law and judges the law. But if you judge the law, you are not a doer of the law, but a judge. 
JAM   4\v 11 Don’t speak against one another, brothers. He who speaks against a brother and judges his brother, speaks against the law and judges the law. But if you judge the law, you are not a doer of the law but a judge. 
JAM   4\v 13 Come now, you who say, “Today or tomorrow let’s go into this city, and spend a year there, trade, and make a profit.” 
JAM   4\v 13 Come now, you who say, “Today or tomorrow let’s go into this city and spend a year there, trade, and make a profit.” 
JAM   5\v 17 To him therefore who knows to do good, and doesn’t do it, to him it is sin. 
JAM   5\v 17 To him therefore who knows to do good and doesn’t do it, to him it is sin. 
JAM   5\v 11 Behold, we call them blessed who endured. You have heard of the perseverance of Job, and have seen the Lord in the outcome, and how the Lord is full of compassion and mercy. 
JAM   5\v 11 Behold, we call them blessed who endured. You have heard of the perseverance of Job and have seen the Lord in the outcome, and how the Lord is full of compassion and mercy. 
1PE   1\v 1 Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to the chosen ones who are living as foreigners in the Dispersion in Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia, 
1PE   1\v 1 Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ,\f + \fr 1:1  \ft “Christ” means “Anointed One”.\f* to the chosen ones who are living as foreigners in the Dispersion in Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia, 
1PE   1\v 7 that the proof of your faith, which is more precious than gold that perishes even though it is tested by fire, may be found to result in praise, glory, and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ— 
1PE   1\v 7 that the proof of your faith, which is more precious than gold that perishes, even though it is tested by fire, may be found to result in praise, glory, and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ— 
1PE   1\v 11 searching for who or what kind of time the Spirit of Christ, which was in them, pointed to, when he predicted the sufferings of Christ, and the glories that would follow them. 
1PE   1\v 11 searching for who or what kind of time the Spirit of Christ which was in them pointed to when he predicted the sufferings of Christ and the glories that would follow them. 
1PE   1\v 15 but just as he who called you is holy, you yourselves also be holy in all of your behavior; 
1PE   1\v 15 but just as he who called you is holy, you yourselves also be holy in all of your behavior, 
1PE   1\v 21 who through him are believers in God, who raised him from the dead, and gave him glory, so that your faith and hope might be in God. 
1PE   1\v 21 who through him are believers in God, who raised him from the dead and gave him glory, so that your faith and hope might be in God. 
1PE   2\v 3 if indeed you have tasted that the Lord is gracious: 
1PE   2\v 3 if indeed you have tasted that the Lord is gracious. 
1PE   2\v 5 You also, as living stones, are built up as a spiritual house, to be a holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices, acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. 
1PE   2\v 5 You also as living stones are built up as a spiritual house, to be a holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices, acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. 
1PE   2\v 11 Beloved, I beg you as foreigners and pilgrims, to abstain from fleshly lusts, which war against the soul; 
1PE   2\v 11 Beloved, I beg you as foreigners and pilgrims to abstain from fleshly lusts which war against the soul, 
1PE   2\v 13 Therefore subject yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord’s sake: whether to the king, as supreme; 
1PE   2\v 13 Therefore subject yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord’s sake: whether to the king, as supreme, 
1PE   2\v 15 For this is the will of God, that by well-doing you should put to silence the ignorance of foolish men: 
1PE   2\v 15 For this is the will of God, that by well-doing you should put to silence the ignorance of foolish men. 
1PE   3\v 1 In the same way, wives, be in subjection to your own husbands; so that, even if any don’t obey the Word, they may be won by the behavior of their wives without a word, 
1PE   3\v 1 In the same way, wives, be in subjection to your own husbands, so that, even if any don’t obey the Word, they may be won by the behavior of their wives without a word, 
1PE   3\v 3 Let your beauty be not just the outward adorning of braiding the hair, and of wearing jewels of gold, or of putting on fine clothing; 
1PE   3\v 3 Let your beauty come not from the outward adorning of braiding your hair, and of wearing gold ornaments or of putting on fine clothing, 
1PE   3\v 5 For this is how in the past, the holy women who hoped in God also adorned themselves, being in subjection to their own husbands. 
1PE   3\v 5 For this is how in the past the holy women who hoped in God also adorned themselves, being in subjection to their own husbands. 
1PE   3\v 7 You husbands, in the same way, live with your wives according to knowledge, giving honor to the woman, as to the weaker vessel, as also being joint heirs of the grace of life, that your prayers may not be hindered. 
1PE   3\v 7 You husbands, in the same way, live with your wives according to knowledge, giving honor to the woman as to the weaker vessel, as also being joint heirs of the grace of life, that your prayers may not be hindered. 
1PE   3\v 9 not rendering evil for evil, or insult for insult; but instead blessing, knowing that you were called to this, that you may inherit a blessing. 
1PE   3\v 9 not rendering evil for evil or insult for insult; but instead blessing, knowing that you were called to this, that you may inherit a blessing. 
1PE   3\v 21 This is a symbol of baptism, which now saves you—not the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the answer of a good conscience toward God, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ, 
1PE   3\v 21 This is a symbol of baptism, which now saves you—not the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the answer of a good conscience toward God—through the resurrection of Jesus Christ, 
1PE   4\v 15 For let none of you suffer as a murderer, or a thief, or an evil doer, or a meddler in other men’s matters. 
1PE   4\v 15 But let none of you suffer as a murderer, or a thief, or an evil doer, or a meddler in other men’s matters. 
1PE   5\v 1 Therefore I exhort the elders among you, as a fellow elder, and a witness of the sufferings of Christ, and who will also share in the glory that will be revealed: 
1PE   5\v 1 Therefore I exhort the elders among you, as a fellow elder and a witness of the sufferings of Christ, and who will also share in the glory that will be revealed: 
1PE   5\v 5 Likewise, you younger ones, be subject to the elder. Yes, all of you clothe yourselves with humility, to subject yourselves to one another; for “God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble.”\x + \xo 5:5  \xt Proverbs 3:34 \x* 
1PE   5\v 5 Likewise, you younger ones, be subject to the elder. Yes, all of you clothe yourselves with humility and subject yourselves to one another; for “God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble.”\x + \xo 5:5  \xt Proverbs 3:34 \x* 
2PE   1\v 1 Simon Peter, a servant and apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who have obtained a like precious faith with us in the righteousness of our God and Savior, Jesus Christ: 
2PE   1\v 1 Simon Peter, a servant and apostle of Jesus Christ,\f + \fr 1:1  \ft “Christ” means “Anointed One”.\f* to those who have obtained a like precious faith with us in the righteousness of our God and Savior, Jesus Christ: 
2PE   1\v 7 and in godliness brotherly affection; and in brotherly affection, love. 
2PE   1\v 7 and in godliness, brotherly affection; and in brotherly affection, love. 
2PE   1\v 19 We have the more sure word of prophecy; and you do well that you heed it, as to a lamp shining in a dark place, until the day dawns, and the morning star arises in your hearts: 
2PE   1\v 19 We have the more sure word of prophecy; and you do well that you heed it as to a lamp shining in a dark place, until the day dawns and the morning star arises in your hearts, 
2PE   2\v 21 For no prophecy ever came by the will of man: but holy men of God spoke, being moved by the Holy Spirit. 
2PE   2\v 21 For no prophecy ever came by the will of man, but holy men of God spoke, being moved by the Holy Spirit. 
2PE   2\v 5 and didn’t spare the ancient world, but preserved Noah with seven others, a preacher of righteousness, when he brought a flood on the world of the ungodly; 
2PE   2\v 5 and didn’t spare the ancient world, but preserved Noah with seven others, a preacher of righteousness, when he brought a flood on the world of the ungodly, 
2PE   2\v 9 the Lord knows how to deliver the godly out of temptation and to keep the unrighteous under punishment for the day of judgment, 
2PE   2\v 9 then the Lord knows how to deliver the godly out of temptation and to keep the unrighteous under punishment for the day of judgment, 
2PE   2\v 11 whereas angels, though greater in might and power, don’t bring a railing judgment against them before the Lord. 
2PE   2\v 11 whereas angels, though greater in might and power, don’t bring a slanderous judgment against them before the Lord. 
2PE   2\v 15 forsaking the right way, they went astray, having followed the way of Balaam the son of Beor, who loved the wages of wrongdoing; 
2PE   2\v 15 Forsaking the right way, they went astray, having followed the way of Balaam the son of Beor, who loved the wages of wrongdoing; 
2PE   2\v 17 These are wells without water, clouds driven by a storm; for whom the blackness of darkness has been reserved forever. 
2PE   2\v 17 These are wells without water, clouds driven by a storm, for whom the blackness of darkness has been reserved forever. 
2PE   3\v 5 For this they willfully forget that there were heavens from of old, and an earth formed out of water and amid water by the word of God, 
2PE   3\v 5 For they willfully forget that there were heavens from of old, and an earth formed out of water and amid water by the word of God, 
2PE   3\v 11 Therefore since all these things will be destroyed like this, what kind of people ought you to be in holy living and godliness, 
2PE   3\v 11 Therefore, since all these things will be destroyed like this, what kind of people ought you to be in holy living and godliness, 
1JO   1\v 3 that which we have seen and heard we declare to you, that you also may have fellowship with us. Yes, and our fellowship is with the Father, and with his Son, Jesus Christ. 
1JO   1\v 3 that which we have seen and heard we declare to you, that you also may have fellowship with us. Yes, and our fellowship is with the Father and with his Son, Jesus Christ.\f + \fr 1:3  \ft “Christ” means “Anointed One”.\f* 
1JO   1\v 7 But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus Christ, his Son, cleanses us from all sin. 
1JO   1\v 7 But if we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus Christ his Son, cleanses us from all sin. 
1JO   1\v 9 If we confess our sins, he is faithful and righteous to forgive us the sins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. 
1JO   1\v 9 If we confess our sins, he is faithful and righteous to forgive us the sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. 
1JO   3\v 11 For this is the message which you heard from the beginning, that we should love one another; 
1JO   3\v 11 For this is the message which you heard from the beginning, that we should love one another— 
1JO   3\v 19 And by this we know that we are of the truth, and persuade our hearts before him, 
1JO   3\v 19 And by this we know that we are of the truth and persuade our hearts before him, 
1JO   4\v 3 and every spirit who doesn’t confess that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is not of God, and this is the spirit of the Antichrist, of whom you have heard that it comes. Now it is in the world already. 
1JO   4\v 3 and every spirit who doesn’t confess that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is not of God; and this is the spirit of the Antichrist, of whom you have heard that it comes. Now it is in the world already. 
1JO   4\v 7 Beloved, let’s love one another, for love is of God; and everyone who loves has been born of God, and knows God. 
1JO   4\v 7 Beloved, let’s love one another, for love is of God; and everyone who loves has been born of God and knows God. 
1JO   4\v 9 By this God’s love was revealed in us, that God has sent his one and only Son into the world that we might live through him. 
1JO   4\v 9 By this God’s love was revealed in us, that God has sent his only born\f + \fr 4:9  \ft The phrase “only born” is from the Greek word “μονογενη”, which is sometimes translated “only begotten” or “one and only”.\f* Son into the world that we might live through him. 
1JO   4\v 19 We love him, because he first loved us. 
1JO   4\v 19 We love him,\f + \fr 4:19  \ft NU omits “him”.\f* because he first loved us. 
1JO   5\v 11 The testimony is this, that God gave to us eternal life, and this life is in his Son. 
1JO   5\v 11 The testimony is this: that God gave to us eternal life, and this life is in his Son. 
1JO   5\v 17 All unrighteousness is sin, and there is a sin not leading to death. 
1JO   5\v 17 All unrighteousness is sin, and there is sin not leading to death. 
2JO   1\v 3 Grace, mercy, and peace will be with us, from God the Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, in truth and love. 
2JO   1\v 3 Grace, mercy, and peace will be with us, from God the Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ,\f + \fr 1:3  \ft “Christ” means “Anointed One”.\f* the Son of the Father, in truth and love. 
2JO   1\v 9 Whoever transgresses and doesn’t remain in the teaching of Christ, doesn’t have God. He who remains in the teaching has both the Father and the Son. 
2JO   1\v 9 Whoever transgresses and doesn’t remain in the teaching of Christ doesn’t have God. He who remains in the teaching has both the Father and the Son. 
3JO   1\v 14 but I hope to see you soon. Then we will speak face to face. Peace be to you. The friends greet you. Greet the friends by name. 3JO   1JDE   1\v 1 Jude,\f + \fr 1:1  \ft or, Judah\f* a servant of Jesus Christ, and brother of James, to those who are called, sanctified by God the Father, and kept for Jesus Christ: 
JDE   1\v 1 Jude,\f + \fr 1:1  \ft or, Judah\f* a servant of Jesus Christ,\f + \fr 1:1  \ft “Christ” means “Anointed One”.\f* and brother of James, to those who are called, sanctified by God the Father, and kept for Jesus Christ: 
REV   1\v 1 This is the Revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show to his servants the things which must happen soon, which he sent and made known by his angel\f + \fr 1:1  \ft or, messenger (here and wherever angel is mentioned)\f* to his servant, John, 
REV   1\v 1 This is the Revelation of Jesus Christ,\f + \fr 1:1  \ft “Christ” means “Anointed One”.\f* which God gave him to show to his servants the things which must happen soon, which he sent and made known by his angel\f + \fr 1:1  \ft or, messenger (here and wherever angel is mentioned)\f* to his servant, John, 
REV   1\v 3 Blessed is he who reads and those who hear the words of the prophecy, and keep the things that are written in it, for the time is at hand. 
REV   1\v 3 Blessed is he who reads and those who hear the words of the prophecy, and keep the things that are written in it, for the time is near. 
REV   1\v 11 saying,\f + \fr 1:11  \ft TR adds “I am the Alpha and the Omega, the First and the Last.”\f*\wj “What you see, write in a book and send to the seven assemblies:\wj*\f + \fr 1:11  \ft TR adds “which are in Asia”\f* \wj to Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamum, Thyatira, Sardis, Philadelphia, and to Laodicea.”\wj* 
REV   1\v 11 saying,\f + \fr 1:11  \ft TR adds “I am the Alpha and the Omega, the First and the Last.”\f* \wj “What you see, write in a book and send to the seven assemblies:\wj*\f + \fr 1:11  \ft TR adds “which are in Asia”\f* \wj to Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamum, Thyatira, Sardis, Philadelphia, and to Laodicea.”\wj* 
REV   2\v 15  \wj So you also have some who hold to the teaching of the Nicolaitans likewise.\wj*\f + \fr 2:15  \ft TR reads “which I hate” instead of “likewise”\f* 
REV   2\v 15  \wj So also you likewise have some who hold to the teaching of the Nicolaitans.\wj*\f + \fr 2:15  \ft TR reads “which I hate” instead of “likewise”\f* 
REV   2\v 17  \wj He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the assemblies. To him who overcomes, to him I will give of the hidden manna, \wj*\f + \fr 2:17  \ft Manna is supernatural food, named after the Hebrew for “What is it?”. See Exodus 11:7-9.\f* \wj and I will give him a white stone, and on the stone a new name written, which no one knows but he who receives it.\wj* 
REV   2\v 17  \wj He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the assemblies. To him who overcomes, to him I will give of the hidden manna, \wj*\f + \fr 2:17  \ft Manna is supernatural food, named after the Hebrew for “What is it?”. See Exodus 11:7-9.\f* \wj and I will give him a white stone, and on the stone a new name written which no one knows but he who receives it.\wj* 
REV   2\v 27  \wj He will rule them with a rod of iron, shattering them like clay pots;\wj*\x + \xo 2:27  \xt Psalm 2:9\x* \wj as I also have received of my Father: \wj* 
REV   2\v 27  \wj He will rule them with a rod of iron, shattering them like clay pots,\wj*\x + \xo 2:27  \xt Psalm 2:9\x* \wj as I also have received of my Father; \wj* 
REV   3\v 9  \wj Behold, I give some of the synagogue of Satan, of those who say they are Jews, and they are not, but lie—behold, I will make them to come and worship before your feet, and to know that I have loved you. \wj* 
REV   3\v 9  \wj Behold, I make some of the synagogue of Satan, of those who say they are Jews, and they are not, but lie—behold, I will make them to come and worship before your feet, and to know that I have loved you. \wj* 
REV   3\v 17  \wj Because you say, ‘I am rich, and have gotten riches, and have need of nothing;’ and don’t know that you are the wretched one, miserable, poor, blind, and naked; \wj* 
REV   3\v 17  \wj Because you say, ‘I am rich, and have gotten riches, and have need of nothing,’ and don’t know that you are the wretched one, miserable, poor, blind, and naked; \wj* 
REV   3\v 21  \wj He who overcomes, I will give to him to sit down with me on my throne, as I also overcame, and sat down with my Father on his throne. \wj* 
REV   3\v 21  \wj He who overcomes, I will give to him to sit down with me on my throne, as I also overcame and sat down with my Father on his throne. \wj* 
REV   4\v 1 After these things I looked and saw a door opened in heaven, and the first voice that I heard, like a trumpet speaking with me, was one saying, “Come up here, and I will show you the things which must happen after this.” 
REV   4\v 1 After these things I looked and saw a door opened in heaven; and the first voice that I heard, like a trumpet speaking with me, was one saying, “Come up here, and I will show you the things which must happen after this.” 
REV   4\v 7 The first creature was like a lion, and the second creature like a calf, and the third creature had a face like a man, and the fourth was like a flying eagle. 
REV   4\v 7 The first creature was like a lion, the second creature like a calf, the third creature had a face like a man, and the fourth was like a flying eagle. 
REV   5\v 11 “Worthy are you, our Lord and God, the Holy One,\f + \fr 4:11  \ft TR omits “and God, the Holy One,”\f* to receive the glory, the honor, and the power, for you created all things, and because of your desire they existed, and were created!” 
REV   5\v 11 “Worthy are you, our Lord and God, the Holy One,\f + \fr 4:11  \ft TR omits “and God, the Holy One,”\f* to receive the glory, the honor, and the power, for you created all things, and because of your desire they existed and were created!” 
REV   5\v 11 I saw, and I heard something like a voice of many angels around the throne, the living creatures, and the elders. The number of them was ten thousands of ten thousands, and thousands of thousands; 
REV   5\v 11 I looked, and I heard something like a voice of many angels around the throne, the living creatures, and the elders. The number of them was ten thousands of ten thousands, and thousands of thousands, 
REV   5\v 13 I heard every created thing which is in heaven, on the earth, under the earth, on the sea, and everything in them, saying, “To him who sits on the throne, and to the Lamb be the blessing, the honor, the glory, and the dominion, forever and ever! Amen!”\f + \fr 5:13  \ft TR omits “Amen!”\f* 
REV   5\v 13 I heard every created thing which is in heaven, on the earth, under the earth, on the sea, and everything in them, saying, “To him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb be the blessing, the honor, the glory, and the dominion, forever and ever! Amen!”\f + \fr 5:13  \ft TR omits “Amen!”\f* 
REV   7\v 17 for the great day of his wrath has come; and who is able to stand?” 
REV   7\v 17 for the great day of his wrath has come, and who is able to stand?” 
REV   7\v 9 After these things I looked, and behold, a great multitude, which no man could count, out of every nation and of all tribes, peoples, and languages, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, dressed in white robes, with palm branches in their hands. 
REV   7\v 9 After these things I looked, and behold, a great multitude which no man could count, out of every nation and of all tribes, peoples, and languages, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, dressed in white robes, with palm branches in their hands. 
REV   7\v 15 Therefore they are before the throne of God, they serve him day and night in his temple. He who sits on the throne will spread his tabernacle over them. 
REV   7\v 15 Therefore they are before the throne of God, and they serve him day and night in his temple. He who sits on the throne will spread his tabernacle over them. 
REV   8\v 11 The name of the star is called “Wormwood.” One third of the waters became wormwood. Many people died from the waters, because they were made bitter. 
REV   8\v 11 The name of the star is “Wormwood.” One third of the waters became wormwood. Many people died from the waters, because they were made bitter. 
REV   9\v 13 I saw, and I heard an eagle,\f + \fr 8:13  \ft TR reads “angel” instead of “eagle” \f* flying in mid heaven, saying with a loud voice, “Woe! Woe! Woe for those who dwell on the earth, because of the other voices of the trumpets of the three angels, who are yet to sound!” 
REV   9\v 13 I saw, and I heard an eagle,\f + \fr 8:13  \ft TR reads “angel” instead of “eagle” \f* flying in mid heaven, saying with a loud voice, “Woe! Woe! Woe to those who dwell on the earth, because of the other blasts of the trumpets of the three angels, who are yet to sound!” 
REV   9\v 9 They had breastplates, like breastplates of iron. The sound of their wings was like the sound of chariots, or of many horses rushing to war. 
REV   9\v 9 They had breastplates like breastplates of iron. The sound of their wings was like the sound of many chariots and horses rushing to war. 
REV   9\v 17 Thus I saw the horses in the vision, and those who sat on them, having breastplates of fiery red, hyacinth blue, and sulfur yellow; and the horses’ heads resembled lions’ heads. Out of their mouths proceed fire, smoke, and sulfur. 
REV   9\v 17 Thus I saw the horses in the vision and those who sat on them, having breastplates of fiery red, hyacinth blue, and sulfur yellow; and the horses’ heads resembled lions’ heads. Out of their mouths proceed fire, smoke, and sulfur. 
REV   9\v 19 For the power of the horses is in their mouths and in their tails. For their tails are like serpents, and have heads, and with them they harm. 
REV   9\v 19 For the power of the horses is in their mouths and in their tails. For their tails are like serpents, and have heads; and with them they harm. 
REV  10\v 5 The angel whom I saw standing on the sea and on the land lifted up his right hand to the sky, 
REV  10\v 5 The angel whom I saw standing on the sea and on the land lifted up his right hand to the sky 
REV  10\v 7 but in the days of the voice of the seventh angel, when he is about to sound, then the mystery of God is finished, as he declared to his servants, the prophets. 
REV  10\v 7 but in the days of the voice of the seventh angel, when he is about to sound, then the mystery of God is finished, as he declared to his servants the prophets. 
REV  11\v 1 A reed like a rod was given to me. Someone said, “Rise, and measure God’s temple, and the altar, and those who worship in it. 
REV  11\v 1 A reed like a rod was given to me. Someone said, “Rise and measure God’s temple, and the altar, and those who worship in it. 
REV  11\v 13 In that day there was a great earthquake, and a tenth of the city fell. Seven thousand people were killed in the earthquake, and the rest were terrified, and gave glory to the God of heaven. 
REV  11\v 13 In that day there was a great earthquake, and a tenth of the city fell. Seven thousand people were killed in the earthquake, and the rest were terrified and gave glory to the God of heaven. 
REV  11\v 15 The seventh angel sounded, and great voices in heaven followed, saying, “The kingdom of the world has become the Kingdom of our Lord, and of his Christ. He will reign forever and ever!” 
REV  11\v 15 The seventh angel sounded, and great voices in heaven followed, saying, “The kingdom of the world has become the Kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ. He will reign forever and ever!” 
REV  11\v 17 saying: “We give you thanks, Lord God, the Almighty, the one who is and who was;\f + \fr 11:17  \ft TR adds “and who is coming”\f* because you have taken your great power and reigned. 
REV  11\v 17 saying: “We give you thanks, Lord God, the Almighty, the one who is and who was,\f + \fr 11:17  \ft TR adds “and who is coming”\f* because you have taken your great power and reigned. 
REV  12\v 5 She gave birth to a son, a male child, who is to rule all the nations with a rod of iron. Her child was caught up to God, and to his throne. 
REV  12\v 5 She gave birth to a son, a male child, who is to rule all the nations with a rod of iron. Her child was caught up to God and to his throne. 
REV  13\v 7 It was given to him to make war with the saints, and to overcome them. Authority over every tribe, people, language, and nation was given to him. 
REV  13\v 7 It was given to him to make war with the saints and to overcome them. Authority over every tribe, people, language, and nation was given to him. 
REV  13\v 11 I saw another beast coming up out of the earth. He had two horns like a lamb, and he spoke like a dragon. 
REV  13\v 11 I saw another beast coming up out of the earth. He had two horns like a lamb and it spoke like a dragon. 
REV  13\v 15 It was given to him to give breath to it, to the image of the beast, that the image of the beast should both speak, and cause as many as wouldn’t worship the image of the beast to be killed. 
REV  13\v 15 It was given to him to give breath to the image of the beast, that the image of the beast should both speak, and cause as many as wouldn’t worship the image of the beast to be killed. 
REV  13\v 17 and that no one would be able to buy or to sell, unless he has that mark, which is the name of the beast or the number of his name. 
REV  13\v 17 and that no one would be able to buy or to sell unless he has that mark, which is the name of the beast or the number of his name. 
REV  14\v 1 I saw, and behold, the Lamb standing on Mount Zion, and with him a number, one hundred forty-four thousand, having his name, and the name of his Father, written on their foreheads. 
REV  14\v 1 I saw, and behold, the Lamb standing on Mount Zion, and with him a number, one hundred forty-four thousand, having his name and the name of his Father written on their foreheads. 
REV  14\v 3 They sing a new song before the throne, and before the four living creatures and the elders. No one could learn the song except the one hundred forty-four thousand, those who had been redeemed out of the earth. 
REV  14\v 3 They sing a new song before the throne and before the four living creatures and the elders. No one could learn the song except the one hundred forty-four thousand, those who had been redeemed out of the earth. 
REV  14\v 7 He said with a loud voice, “Fear the Lord, and give him glory; for the hour of his judgment has come. Worship him who made the heaven, the earth, the sea, and the springs of waters!” 
REV  14\v 7 He said with a loud voice, “Fear the Lord, and give him glory, for the hour of his judgment has come. Worship him who made the heaven, the earth, the sea, and the springs of waters!” 
REV  14\v 9 Another angel, a third, followed them, saying with a great voice, “If anyone worships the beast and his image, and receives a mark on his forehead, or on his hand, 
REV  14\v 9 Another angel, a third, followed them, saying with a great voice, “If anyone worships the beast and his image, and receives a mark on his forehead or on his hand, 
REV  14\v 15 Another angel came out of the temple, crying with a loud voice to him who sat on the cloud, “Send your sickle, and reap; for the hour to reap has come; for the harvest of the earth is ripe!” 
REV  14\v 15 Another angel came out of the temple, crying with a loud voice to him who sat on the cloud, “Send your sickle and reap, for the hour to reap has come; for the harvest of the earth is ripe!” 
REV  14\v 19 The angel thrust his sickle into the earth, and gathered the vintage of the earth, and threw it into the great wine press of the wrath of God. 
REV  14\v 19 The angel thrust his sickle into the earth, and gathered the vintage of the earth and threw it into the great wine press of the wrath of God. 
REV  17\v 21 Great hailstones, about the weight of a talent,\f + \fr 16:21  \ft A talent is about 30 kilograms or 66 pounds.\f* came down out of the sky on people. People blasphemed God because of the plague of the hail, for this plague is exceedingly severe. 
REV  17\v 21 Great hailstones, about the weight of a talent,\f + \fr 16:21  \ft A talent is about 30 kilograms or 66 pounds.\f* came down out of the sky on people. People blasphemed God because of the plague of the hail, for this plague was exceedingly severe. 
REV  17\v 7 The angel said to me, “Why do you wonder? I will tell you the mystery of the woman, and of the beast that carries her, which has the seven heads and the ten horns. 
REV  17\v 7 The angel said to me, “Why do you wonder? I will tell you the mystery of the woman and of the beast that carries her, which has the seven heads and the ten horns. 
REV  18\v 7 However much she glorified herself, and grew wanton, so much give her of torment and mourning. For she says in her heart, ‘I sit a queen, and am no widow, and will in no way see mourning.’ 
REV  18\v 7 However much she glorified herself and grew wanton, so much give her of torment and mourning. For she says in her heart, ‘I sit a queen, and am no widow, and will in no way see mourning.’ 
REV  18\v 23 The light of a lamp will shine no more at all in you. The voice of the bridegroom and of the bride will be heard no more at all in you; for your merchants were the princes of the earth; for with your sorcery all the nations were deceived. 
REV  18\v 23 The light of a lamp will shine no more at all in you. The voice of the bridegroom and of the bride will be heard no more at all in you, for your merchants were the princes of the earth; for with your sorcery all the nations were deceived. 
REV  19\v 15 Out of his mouth proceeds a sharp, double-edged sword, that with it he should strike the nations. He will rule them with an iron rod.\x + \xo 19:15  \xt Psalm 2:9 \x* He treads the wine press of the fierceness of the wrath of God, the Almighty. 
REV  19\v 15 Out of his mouth proceeds a sharp, double-edged sword that with it he should strike the nations. He will rule them with an iron rod.\x + \xo 19:15  \xt Psalm 2:9 \x* He treads the wine press of the fierceness of the wrath of God, the Almighty. 
REV  19\v 19 I saw the beast, and the kings of the earth, and their armies, gathered together to make war against him who sat on the horse, and against his army. 
REV  19\v 19 I saw the beast, the kings of the earth, and their armies, gathered together to make war against him who sat on the horse and against his army. 
REV  20\v 3 and cast him into the abyss, and shut it, and sealed it over him, that he should deceive the nations no more, until the thousand years were finished. After this, he must be freed for a short time. 
REV  20\v 3 and cast him into the abyss, and shut it and sealed it over him, that he should deceive the nations no more until the thousand years were finished. After this, he must be freed for a short time. 
REV  20\v 7 And after the thousand years, Satan will be released from his prison, 
REV  20\v 7 And after the thousand years, Satan will be released from his prison 
REV  20\v 9 They went up over the width of the earth, and surrounded the camp of the saints, and the beloved city. Fire came down out of heaven from God and devoured them. 
REV  20\v 9 They went up over the width of the earth and surrounded the camp of the saints and the beloved city. Fire came down out of heaven from God and devoured them. 
REV  20\v 11 I saw a great white throne, and him who sat on it, from whose face the earth and the heaven fled away. There was found no place for them. 
REV  20\v 11 I saw a great white throne and him who sat on it, from whose face the earth and the heaven fled away. There was found no place for them. 
REV  21\v 1 I saw a new heaven and a new earth: for the first heaven and the first earth have passed away, and the sea is no more. 
REV  21\v 1 I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth have passed away, and the sea is no more. 
REV  21\v 3 I heard a loud voice out of heaven saying, “Behold, God’s dwelling is with people, and he will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. 
REV  21\v 3 I heard a loud voice out of heaven saying, “Behold, God’s dwelling is with people; and he will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. 
REV  21\v 9 One of the seven angels who had the seven bowls, who were loaded with the seven last plagues came, and he spoke with me, saying, “Come here. I will show you the wife, the Lamb’s bride.” 
REV  21\v 9 One of the seven angels who had the seven bowls which were loaded with the seven last plagues came, and he spoke with me, saying, “Come here. I will show you the bride, the Lamb’s wife.” 
REV  21\v 11 having the glory of God. Her light was like a most precious stone, as if it were a jasper stone, clear as crystal; 
REV  21\v 11 having the glory of God. Her light was like a most precious stone, like a jasper stone, clear as crystal; 
REV  21\v 13 On the east were three gates; and on the north three gates; and on the south three gates; and on the west three gates. 
REV  21\v 13 On the east were three gates, and on the north three gates, and on the south three gates, and on the west three gates. 
REV  21\v 19 The foundations of the city’s wall were adorned with all kinds of precious stones. The first foundation was jasper; the second, sapphire;\f + \fr 21:19  \ft or, lapis lazuli\f* the third, chalcedony; the fourth, emerald; 
REV  21\v 19 The foundations of the city’s wall were adorned with all kinds of precious stones. The first foundation was jasper, the second sapphire;\f + \fr 21:19  \ft or, lapis lazuli\f* the third chalcedony, the fourth emerald, 
REV  21\v 23 The city has no need for the sun or moon to shine, for the very glory of God illuminated it, and its lamp is the Lamb. 
REV  21\v 23 The city has no need for the sun or moon to shine, for the very glory of God illuminated it and its lamp is the Lamb. 
REV  22\v 7  \wj “Behold, I come quickly. Blessed is he who keeps the words of the prophecy of this book.”\wj* 
REV  22\v 7  \wj “Behold, I am coming soon! Blessed is he who keeps the words of the prophecy of this book.”\wj* 
REV  22\v 9 He said to me, “See you don’t do it! I am a fellow bondservant with you and with your brothers, the prophets, and with those who keep the words of this book. Worship God.” 
REV  22\v 9 He said to me, “You must not do that! I am a fellow bondservant with you and with your brothers, the prophets, and with those who keep the words of this book. Worship God.” 
REV  22\v 19 If anyone takes away from the words of the book of this prophecy, may God take away his part from the tree\f + \fr 22:19  \ft TR reads “Book” instead of “tree”\f* of life, and out of the holy city, which are written in this book. 
REV  22\v 19 If anyone takes away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God will take away his part from the tree\f + \fr 22:19  \ft TR reads “Book” instead of “tree”\f* of life, and out of the holy city, which are written in this book. 
