Now when they had gone, behold, an angel of the Lord *appeared to Joseph in a dream and said, "Get up! Take the Child and His mother and flee to Egypt, and remain there until I tell you; for Herod is going to search for the Child to destroy Him." -- matthew 2:13
But when Herod died, behold, an angel of the Lord *appeared in a dream to Joseph in Egypt, and said, -- matthew 2:19
Now in those days John the Baptist *came, preaching in the wilderness of Judea, saying, -- matthew 3:1
Then Jesus *arrived from Galilee at the Jordan coming to John, to be baptized by him. -- matthew 3:13
But Jesus answering said to him, "Permit it at this time; for in this way it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness." Then he *permitted Him. -- matthew 3:15
Then the devil *took Him into the holy city and had Him stand on the pinnacle of the temple, -- matthew 4:5
and *said to Him, "If You are the Son of God, throw Yourself down; for it is written, 'HE WILL COMMAND HIS ANGELS CONCERNING YOU'; and 'ON their HANDS THEY WILL BEAR YOU UP, SO THAT YOU WILL NOT STRIKE YOUR FOOT AGAINST A STONE.'" -- matthew 4:6
Again, the devil *took Him to a very high mountain and *showed Him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory; -- matthew 4:8
Then Jesus *said to him, "Go, Satan! For it is written, 'YOU SHALL WORSHIP THE LORD YOUR GOD, AND SERVE HIM ONLY.'" -- matthew 4:10
Then the devil *left Him; and behold, angels came and began to minister to Him. -- matthew 4:11
And He *said to them, "Follow Me, and I will make you fishers of men." -- matthew 4:19
And Jesus *said to him, "See that you tell no one; but go, show yourself to the priest and present the offering that Moses commanded, as a testimony to them." -- matthew 8:4
Jesus *said to him, "I will come and heal him." -- matthew 8:7
Jesus *said to him, "The foxes have holes and the birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay His head." -- matthew 8:20
But Jesus *said to him, "Follow Me, and allow the dead to bury their own dead." -- matthew 8:22
He *said to them, "Why are you afraid, you men of little faith?" Then He got up and rebuked the winds and the sea, and it became perfectly calm. -- matthew 8:26
"But so that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins"--then He *said to the paralytic, "Get up, pick up your bed and go home." -- matthew 9:6
As Jesus went on from there, He saw a man called Matthew, sitting in the tax collector's booth; and He *said to him, "Follow Me!" And he got up and followed Him. -- matthew 9:9
Then the disciples of John *came to Him, asking, "Why do we and the Pharisees fast, but Your disciples do not fast?" -- matthew 9:14
When He entered the house, the blind men came up to Him, and Jesus *said to them, "Do you believe that I am able to do this?" They *said to Him, "Yes, Lord." -- matthew 9:28
Then He *said to His disciples, "The harvest is plentiful, but the workers are few. -- matthew 9:37
Then He *said to the man, "Stretch out your hand!" He stretched it out, and it was restored to normal, like the other. -- matthew 12:13
"And others fell on the good soil and *yielded a crop, some a hundredfold, some sixty, and some thirty. -- matthew 13:8
"And he said to them, 'An enemy has done this!' The slaves *said to him, 'Do you want us, then, to go and gather them up?' -- matthew 13:28
"But he *said, 'No; for while you are gathering up the tares, you may uproot the wheat with them. -- matthew 13:29
"Have you understood all these things?" They *said to Him, "Yes." -- matthew 13:51
Having been prompted by her mother, she *said, "Give me here on a platter the head of John the Baptist." -- matthew 14:8
They *said to Him, "We have here only five loaves and two fish." -- matthew 14:17
Immediately Jesus stretched out His hand and took hold of him, and *said to him, "You of little faith, why did you doubt?" -- matthew 14:31
Then some Pharisees and scribes *came to Jesus from Jerusalem and said, -- matthew 15:1
Then the disciples *came and *said to Him, "Do You know that the Pharisees were offended when they heard this statement?" -- matthew 15:12
The disciples *said to Him, "Where would we get so many loaves in this desolate place to satisfy such a large crowd?" -- matthew 15:33
And Jesus *said to them, "How many loaves do you have?" And they said, "Seven, and a few small fish." -- matthew 15:34
He *said to them, "But who do you say that I am?" -- matthew 16:15
Six days later Jesus *took with Him Peter and James and John his brother, and *led them up on a high mountain by themselves. -- matthew 17:1
And He *said to them, "Because of the littleness of your faith; for truly I say to you, if you have faith the size of a mustard seed, you will say to this mountain, 'Move from here to there,' and it will move; and nothing will be impossible to you. -- matthew 17:20
He *said, "Yes." And when he came into the house, Jesus spoke to him first, saying, "What do you think, Simon? From whom do the kings of the earth collect customs or poll-tax, from their sons or from strangers?" -- matthew 17:25
Jesus *said to him, "I do not say to you, up to seven times, but up to seventy times seven. -- matthew 18:22
"Then summoning him, his lord *said to him, 'You wicked slave, I forgave you all that debt because you pleaded with me. -- matthew 18:32
They *said to Him, "Why then did Moses command to GIVE HER A CERTIFICATE OF DIVORCE AND SEND her AWAY?" -- matthew 19:7
He *said to them, "Because of your hardness of heart Moses permitted you to divorce your wives; but from the beginning it has not been this way. -- matthew 19:8
The disciples *said to Him, "If the relationship of the man with his wife is like this, it is better not to marry." -- matthew 19:10
Then he *said to Him, "Which ones?" And Jesus said, "YOU SHALL NOT COMMIT MURDER; YOU SHALL NOT COMMIT ADULTERY; YOU SHALL NOT STEAL; YOU SHALL NOT BEAR FALSE WITNESS; -- matthew 19:18
The young man *said to Him, "All these things I have kept; what am I still lacking?" -- matthew 19:20
"And about the eleventh hour he went out and found others standing around; and he *said to them, 'Why have you been standing here idle all day long?' -- matthew 20:6
"They *said to him, 'Because no one hired us.' He *said to them, 'You go into the vineyard too.' -- matthew 20:7
"When evening came, the owner of the vineyard *said to his foreman, 'Call the laborers and pay them their wages, beginning with the last group to the first.' -- matthew 20:8
And He said to her, "What do you wish?" She *said to Him, "Command that in Your kingdom these two sons of mine may sit one on Your right and one on Your left." -- matthew 20:21
But Jesus answered, "You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I am about to drink?" They *said to Him, "We are able." -- matthew 20:22
He *said to them, "My cup you shall drink; but to sit on My right and on My left, this is not Mine to give, but it is for those for whom it has been prepared by My Father." -- matthew 20:23
They *said to Him, "Lord, we want our eyes to be opened." -- matthew 20:33
And He *said to them, "It is written, 'MY HOUSE SHALL BE CALLED A HOUSE OF PRAYER'; but you are making it a ROBBERS' DEN." -- matthew 21:13
and said to Him, "Do You hear what these children are saying?" And Jesus *said to them, "Yes; have you never read, 'OUT OF THE MOUTH OF INFANTS AND NURSING BABIES YOU HAVE PREPARED PRAISE FOR YOURSELF'?" -- matthew 21:16
Seeing a lone fig tree by the road, He came to it and found nothing on it except leaves only; and He *said to it, "No longer shall there ever be any fruit from you." And at once the fig tree withered. -- matthew 21:19
"Which of the two did the will of his father?" They *said, "The first." Jesus *said to them, "Truly I say to you that the tax collectors and prostitutes will get into the kingdom of God before you. -- matthew 21:31
They *said to Him, "He will bring those wretches to a wretched end, and will rent out the vineyard to other vine-growers who will pay him the proceeds at the proper seasons." -- matthew 21:41
Jesus *said to them, "Did you never read in the Scriptures, 'THE STONE WHICH THE BUILDERS REJECTED, THIS BECAME THE CHIEF CORNER stone; THIS CAME ABOUT FROM THE LORD, AND IT IS MARVELOUS IN OUR EYES'? -- matthew 21:42
"Then he *said to his slaves, 'The wedding is ready, but those who were invited were not worthy. -- matthew 22:8
and he *said to him, 'Friend, how did you come in here without wedding clothes?' And the man was speechless. -- matthew 22:12
And they *sent their disciples to Him, along with the Herodians, saying, "Teacher, we know that You are truthful and teach the way of God in truth, and defer to no one; for You are not partial to any. -- matthew 22:16
And He *said to them, "Whose likeness and inscription is this?" -- matthew 22:20
They *said to Him, "Caesar's." Then He *said to them, "Then render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's; and to God the things that are God's." -- matthew 22:21
"What do you think about the Christ, whose son is He?" They *said to Him, "The son of David." -- matthew 22:42
He *said to them, "Then how does David in the Spirit call Him 'Lord,' saying, -- matthew 22:43
"Now after a long time the master of those slaves *came and *settled accounts with them. -- matthew 25:19
And Judas, who was betraying Him, said, "Surely it is not I, Rabbi?" Jesus *said to him, "You have said it yourself." -- matthew 26:25
Then Jesus *said to them, "You will all fall away because of Me this night, for it is written, 'I WILL STRIKE DOWN THE SHEPHERD, AND THE SHEEP OF THE FLOCK SHALL BE SCATTERED.' -- matthew 26:31
Peter *said to Him, "Even if I have to die with You, I will not deny You." All the disciples said the same thing too. -- matthew 26:35
Then Jesus *came with them to a place called Gethsemane, and *said to His disciples, "Sit here while I go over there and pray." -- matthew 26:36
Then He *said to them, "My soul is deeply grieved, to the point of death; remain here and keep watch with Me." -- matthew 26:38
And He *came to the disciples and *found them sleeping, and *said to Peter, "So, you men could not keep watch with Me for one hour? -- matthew 26:40
Then He *came to the disciples and *said to them, "Are you still sleeping and resting? Behold, the hour is at hand and the Son of Man is being betrayed into the hands of sinners. -- matthew 26:45
Then Jesus *said to him, "Put your sword back into its place; for all those who take up the sword shall perish by the sword. -- matthew 26:52
Jesus *said to him, "You have said it yourself; nevertheless I tell you, hereafter you will see THE SON OF MAN SITTING AT THE RIGHT HAND OF POWER, and COMING ON THE CLOUDS OF HEAVEN." -- matthew 26:64
When he had gone out to the gateway, another servant-girl saw him and *said to those who were there, "This man was with Jesus of Nazareth." -- matthew 26:71
Then Pilate *said to Him, "Do You not hear how many things they testify against You?" -- matthew 27:13
Pilate *said to them, "Then what shall I do with Jesus who is called Christ?" They all *said, "Crucify Him!" -- matthew 27:22
At that time two robbers *were crucified with Him, one on the right and one on the left. -- matthew 27:38
Then Jesus *said to them, "Do not be afraid; go and take word to My brethren to leave for Galilee, and there they will see Me." -- matthew 28:10
Immediately the Spirit *impelled Him to go out into the wilderness. -- mark 1:12
They *went into Capernaum; and immediately on the Sabbath He entered the synagogue and began to teach. -- mark 1:21
Now Simon's mother-in-law was lying sick with a fever; and immediately they *spoke to Jesus about her. -- mark 1:30
they found Him, and *said to Him, "Everyone is looking for You." -- mark 1:37
He *said to them, "Let us go somewhere else to the towns nearby, so that I may preach there also; for that is what I came for." -- mark 1:38
And a leper *came to Jesus, beseeching Him and falling on his knees before Him, and saying, "If You are willing, You can make me clean." -- mark 1:40
Moved with compassion, Jesus stretched out His hand and touched him, and *said to him, "I am willing; be cleansed." -- mark 1:41
and He *said to him, "See that you say nothing to anyone; but go, show yourself to the priest and offer for your cleansing what Moses commanded, as a testimony to them." -- mark 1:44
And they *came, bringing to Him a paralytic, carried by four men. -- mark 2:3
And Jesus seeing their faith *said to the paralytic, "Son, your sins are forgiven." -- mark 2:5
Immediately Jesus, aware in His spirit that they were reasoning that way within themselves, *said to them, "Why are you reasoning about these things in your hearts? -- mark 2:8
"But so that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins"--He *said to the paralytic, -- mark 2:10
As He passed by, He saw Levi the son of Alphaeus sitting in the tax booth, and He *said to him, "Follow Me!" And he got up and followed Him. -- mark 2:14
And it *happened that He was reclining at the table in his house, and many tax collectors and sinners were dining with Jesus and His disciples; for there were many of them, and they were following Him. -- mark 2:15
And hearing this, Jesus *said to them, "It is not those who are healthy who need a physician, but those who are sick; I did not come to call the righteous, but sinners." -- mark 2:17
John's disciples and the Pharisees were fasting; and they *came and *said to Him, "Why do John's disciples and the disciples of the Pharisees fast, but Your disciples do not fast?" -- mark 2:18
And He *said to them, "Have you never read what David did when he was in need and he and his companions became hungry; -- mark 2:25
He *said to the man with the withered hand, "Get up and come forward!" -- mark 3:3
And He *said to them, "Is it lawful to do good or to do harm on the Sabbath, to save a life or to kill?" But they kept silent. -- mark 3:4
After looking around at them with anger, grieved at their hardness of heart, He *said to the man, "Stretch out your hand." And he stretched it out, and his hand was restored. -- mark 3:5
And He *went up on the mountain and *summoned those whom He Himself wanted, and they came to Him. -- mark 3:13
And He *came home, and the crowd *gathered again, to such an extent that they could not even eat a meal. -- mark 3:20
Then His mother and His brothers *arrived, and standing outside they sent word to Him and called Him. -- mark 3:31
A crowd was sitting around Him, and they *said to Him, "Behold, Your mother and Your brothers are outside looking for You." -- mark 3:32
Answering them, He *said, "Who are My mother and My brothers?" -- mark 3:33
Looking about at those who were sitting around Him, He *said, "Behold My mother and My brothers! -- mark 3:34
And He *said to them, "Do you not understand this parable? How will you understand all the parables? -- mark 4:13
On that day, when evening came, He *said to them, "Let us go over to the other side." -- mark 4:35
Leaving the crowd, they *took Him along with them in the boat, just as He was; and other boats were with Him. -- mark 4:36
And there *arose a fierce gale of wind, and the waves were breaking over the boat so much that the boat was already filling up. -- mark 4:37
Jesus Himself was in the stern, asleep on the cushion; and they *woke Him and *said to Him, "Teacher, do You not care that we are perishing?" -- mark 4:38
and shouting with a loud voice, he *said, "What business do we have with each other, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I implore You by God, do not torment me!" -- mark 5:7
And He was asking him, "What is your name?" And he *said to Him, "My name is Legion; for we are many." -- mark 5:9
They *came to Jesus and *observed the man who had been demon-possessed sitting down, clothed and in his right mind, the very man who had had the "legion"; and they became frightened. -- mark 5:15
And He did not let him, but He *said to him, "Go home to your people and report to them what great things the Lord has done for you, and how He had mercy on you." -- mark 5:19
One of the synagogue officials named Jairus *came up, and on seeing Him, *fell at His feet -- mark 5:22
and *implored Him earnestly, saying, "My little daughter is at the point of death; please come and lay Your hands on her, so that she will get well and live." -- mark 5:23
While He was still speaking, they *came from the house of the synagogue official, saying, "Your daughter has died; why trouble the Teacher anymore?" -- mark 5:35
But Jesus, overhearing what was being spoken, *said to the synagogue official, "Do not be afraid any longer, only believe." -- mark 5:36
They *came to the house of the synagogue official; and He *saw a commotion, and people loudly weeping and wailing. -- mark 5:38
And entering in, He *said to them, "Why make a commotion and weep? The child has not died, but is asleep." -- mark 5:39
They began laughing at Him. But putting them all out, He *took along the child's father and mother and His own companions, and *entered the room where the child was. -- mark 5:40
Taking the child by the hand, He *said to her, "Talitha kum!" (which translated means, "Little girl, I say to you, get up!"). -- mark 5:41
Jesus went out from there and *came into His hometown; and His disciples *followed Him. -- mark 6:1
And He *summoned the twelve and began to send them out in pairs, and gave them authority over the unclean spirits; -- mark 6:7
The apostles *gathered together with Jesus; and they reported to Him all that they had done and taught. -- mark 6:30
And He *said to them, "Come away by yourselves to a secluded place and rest a while." (For there were many people coming and going, and they did not even have time to eat.) -- mark 6:31
But He answered them, "You give them something to eat!" And they *said to Him, "Shall we go and spend two hundred denarii on bread and give them something to eat?" -- mark 6:37
But He answered them, "You give them something to eat!" And they *said to Him, "Shall we go and spend two hundred denarii on bread and give them something to eat?" -- mark 6:37
Seeing them straining at the oars, for the wind was against them, at about the fourth watch of the night He *came to them, walking on the sea; and He intended to pass by them. -- mark 6:48
for they all saw Him and were terrified. But immediately He spoke with them and *said to them, "Take courage; it is I, do not be afraid." -- mark 6:50
The Pharisees and the scribes *asked Him, "Why do Your disciples not walk according to the tradition of the elders, but eat their bread with impure hands?" -- mark 7:5
And He *said to them, "Are you so lacking in understanding also? Do you not understand that whatever goes into the man from outside cannot defile him, -- mark 7:18
But she answered and *said to Him, "Yes, Lord, but even the dogs under the table feed on the children's crumbs." -- mark 7:28
They *brought to Him one who was deaf and spoke with difficulty, and they *implored Him to lay His hand on him. -- mark 7:32
and looking up to heaven with a deep sigh, He *said to him, "Ephphatha!" that is, "Be opened!" -- mark 7:34
In those days, when there was again a large crowd and they had nothing to eat, Jesus called His disciples and *said to them, -- mark 8:1
And He *directed the people to sit down on the ground; and taking the seven loaves, He gave thanks and broke them, and started giving them to His disciples to serve to them, and they served them to the people. -- mark 8:6
Sighing deeply in His spirit, He *said, "Why does this generation seek for a sign? Truly I say to you, no sign will be given to this generation." -- mark 8:12
And Jesus, aware of this, *said to them, "Why do you discuss the fact that you have no bread? Do you not yet see or understand? Do you have a hardened heart? -- mark 8:17
when I broke the five loaves for the five thousand, how many baskets full of broken pieces you picked up?" They *said to Him, "Twelve." -- mark 8:19
"When I broke the seven for the four thousand, how many large baskets full of broken pieces did you pick up?" And they *said to Him, "Seven." -- mark 8:20
And they *came to Bethsaida. And they *brought a blind man to Jesus and *implored Him to touch him. -- mark 8:22
And He continued by questioning them, "But who do you say that I am?" Peter *answered and *said to Him, "You are the Christ." -- mark 8:29
But turning around and seeing His disciples, He rebuked Peter and *said, "Get behind Me, Satan; for you are not setting your mind on God's interests, but man's." -- mark 8:33
Six days later, Jesus *took with Him Peter and James and John, and *brought them up on a high mountain by themselves. And He was transfigured before them; -- mark 9:2
Peter *said to Jesus, "Rabbi, it is good for us to be here; let us make three tabernacles, one for You, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah." -- mark 9:5
And He *answered them and *said, "O unbelieving generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I put up with you? Bring him to Me!" -- mark 9:19
Sitting down, He called the twelve and *said to them, "If anyone wants to be first, he shall be last of all and servant of all." -- mark 9:35
Getting up, He *went from there to the region of Judea and beyond the Jordan; crowds *gathered around Him again, and, according to His custom, He once more began to teach them. -- mark 10:1
And He *said to them, "Whoever divorces his wife and marries another woman commits adultery against her; -- mark 10:11
And Jesus, looking around, *said to His disciples, "How hard it will be for those who are wealthy to enter the kingdom of God!" -- mark 10:23
The disciples were amazed at His words. But Jesus *answered again and *said to them, "Children, how hard it is to enter the kingdom of God! -- mark 10:24
Looking at them, Jesus *said, "With people it is impossible, but not with God; for all things are possible with God." -- mark 10:27
James and John, the two sons of Zebedee, *came up to Jesus, saying, "Teacher, we want You to do for us whatever we ask of You." -- mark 10:35
Calling them to Himself, Jesus *said to them, "You know that those who are recognized as rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them; and their great men exercise authority over them. -- mark 10:42
Then they *came to Jericho. And as He was leaving Jericho with His disciples and a large crowd, a blind beggar named Bartimaeus, the son of Timaeus, was sitting by the road. -- mark 10:46
And Jesus stopped and said, "Call him here." So they *called the blind man, saying to him, "Take courage, stand up! He is calling for you." -- mark 10:49
As they *approached Jerusalem, at Bethphage and Bethany, near the Mount of Olives, He *sent two of His disciples, -- mark 11:1
and *said to them, "Go into the village opposite you, and immediately as you enter it, you will find a colt tied there, on which no one yet has ever sat; untie it and bring it here. -- mark 11:2
They went away and found a colt tied at the door, outside in the street; and they *untied it. -- mark 11:4
They *brought the colt to Jesus and put their coats on it; and He sat on it. -- mark 11:7
Then they *came to Jerusalem. And He entered the temple and began to drive out those who were buying and selling in the temple, and overturned the tables of the money changers and the seats of those who were selling doves; -- mark 11:15
Being reminded, Peter *said to Him, "Rabbi, look, the fig tree which You cursed has withered." -- mark 11:21
And Jesus *answered saying to them, "Have faith in God. -- mark 11:22
They *came again to Jerusalem. And as He was walking in the temple, the chief priests and the scribes and the elders *came to Him, -- mark 11:27
Answering Jesus, they *said, "We do not know." And Jesus *said to them, "Nor will I tell you by what authority I do these things." -- mark 11:33
Then they *sent some of the Pharisees and Herodians to Him in order to trap Him in a statement. -- mark 12:13
They *came and *said to Him, "Teacher, we know that You are truthful and defer to no one; for You are not partial to any, but teach the way of God in truth. Is it lawful to pay a poll-tax to Caesar, or not? -- mark 12:14
They brought one. And He *said to them, "Whose likeness and inscription is this?" And they said to Him, "Caesar's." -- mark 12:16
Some Sadducees (who say that there is no resurrection) *came to Jesus, and began questioning Him, saying, -- mark 12:18
As He was going out of the temple, one of His disciples *said to Him, "Teacher, behold what wonderful stones and what wonderful buildings!" -- mark 13:1
On the first day of Unleavened Bread, when the Passover lamb was being sacrificed, His disciples *said to Him, "Where do You want us to go and prepare for You to eat the Passover?" -- mark 14:12
And He *sent two of His disciples and *said to them, "Go into the city, and a man will meet you carrying a pitcher of water; follow him; -- mark 14:13
When it was evening He *came with the twelve. -- mark 14:17
And Jesus *said to them, "You will all fall away, because it is written, 'I WILL STRIKE DOWN THE SHEPHERD, AND THE SHEEP SHALL BE SCATTERED.' -- mark 14:27
And Jesus *said to him, "Truly I say to you, that this very night, before a rooster crows twice, you yourself will deny Me three times." -- mark 14:30
They *came to a place named Gethsemane; and He *said to His disciples, "Sit here until I have prayed." -- mark 14:32
And He *took with Him Peter and James and John, and began to be very distressed and troubled. -- mark 14:33
And He *said to them, "My soul is deeply grieved to the point of death; remain here and keep watch." -- mark 14:34
And He *came and *found them sleeping, and *said to Peter, "Simon, are you asleep? Could you not keep watch for one hour? -- mark 14:37
And He *came the third time, and *said to them, "Are you still sleeping and resting? It is enough; the hour has come; behold, the Son of Man is being betrayed into the hands of sinners. -- mark 14:41
Immediately while He was still speaking, Judas, one of the twelve, *came up accompanied by a crowd with swords and clubs, who were from the chief priests and the scribes and the elders. -- mark 14:43
A young man was following Him, wearing nothing but a linen sheet over his naked body; and they *seized him. -- mark 14:51
They led Jesus away to the high priest; and all the chief priests and the elders and the scribes *gathered together. -- mark 14:53
Tearing his clothes, the high priest *said, "What further need do we have of witnesses? -- mark 14:63
As Peter was below in the courtyard, one of the servant-girls of the high priest *came, -- mark 14:66
and seeing Peter warming himself, she looked at him and *said, "You also were with Jesus the Nazarene." -- mark 14:67
Pilate questioned Him, "Are You the King of the Jews?" And He *answered him, "It is as you say." -- mark 15:2
The soldiers took Him away into the palace (that is, the Praetorium), and they *called together the whole Roman cohort. -- mark 15:16
They *dressed Him up in purple, and after twisting a crown of thorns, they put it on Him; -- mark 15:17
After they had mocked Him, they took the purple robe off Him and put His own garments on Him. And they *led Him out to crucify Him. -- mark 15:20
They *pressed into service a passer-by coming from the country, Simon of Cyrene (the father of Alexander and Rufus), to bear His cross. -- mark 15:21
Then they *brought Him to the place Golgotha, which is translated, Place of a Skull. -- mark 15:22
And they *crucified Him, and *divided up His garments among themselves, casting lots for them to decide what each man should take. -- mark 15:24
They *crucified two robbers with Him, one on His right and one on His left. -- mark 15:27
Very early on the first day of the week, they *came to the tomb when the sun had risen. -- mark 16:2
Looking up, they *saw that the stone had been rolled away, although it was extremely large. -- mark 16:4
And he *said to them, "Do not be amazed; you are looking for Jesus the Nazarene, who has been crucified. He has risen; He is not here; behold, here is the place where they laid Him. -- mark 16:6
While He was still speaking, someone *came from the house of the synagogue official, saying, "Your daughter has died; do not trouble the Teacher anymore." -- luke 8:49
Now when He had spoken, a Pharisee *asked Him to have lunch with him; and He went in, and reclined at the table. -- luke 11:37
One of the lawyers *said to Him in reply, "Teacher, when You say this, You insult us too." -- luke 11:45
"Then he said to another, 'And how much do you owe?' And he said, 'A hundred measures of wheat.' He *said to him, 'Take your bill, and write eighty.' -- luke 16:7
"In Hades he lifted up his eyes, being in torment, and *saw Abraham far away and Lazarus in his bosom. -- luke 16:23
"But Abraham *said, 'They have Moses and the Prophets; let them hear them.' -- luke 16:29
And answering they *said to Him, "Where, Lord?" And He said to them, "Where the body is, there also the vultures will be gathered." -- luke 17:37
And the Lord said, "Hear what the unrighteous judge *said; -- luke 18:6
"He *said to him, 'By your own words I will judge you, you worthless slave. Did you know that I am an exacting man, taking up what I did not lay down and reaping what I did not sow? -- luke 19:22
But Peter got up and ran to the tomb; stooping and looking in, he *saw the linen wrappings only; and he went away to his home, marveling at what had happened. -- luke 24:12
While they were telling these things, He Himself stood in their midst and *said to them, "Peace be to you." -- luke 24:36
John *testified about Him and cried out, saying, "This was He of whom I said, 'He who comes after me has a higher rank than I, for He existed before me.'" -- john 1:15
They asked him, "What then? Are you Elijah?" And he *said, "I am not." "Are you the Prophet?" And he answered, "No." -- john 1:21
The next day he *saw Jesus coming to him and *said, "Behold, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world! -- john 1:29
and he looked at Jesus as He walked, and *said, "Behold, the Lamb of God!" -- john 1:36
And Jesus turned and saw them following, and *said to them, "What do you seek?" They said to Him, "Rabbi (which translated means Teacher), where are You staying?" -- john 1:38
He *said to them, "Come, and you will see." So they came and saw where He was staying; and they stayed with Him that day, for it was about the tenth hour. -- john 1:39
He *found first his own brother Simon and *said to him, "We have found the Messiah" (which translated means Christ). -- john 1:41
The next day He purposed to go into Galilee, and He *found Philip. And Jesus *said to him, "Follow Me." -- john 1:43
Philip *found Nathanael and *said to him, "We have found Him of whom Moses in the Law and also the Prophets wrote--Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph." -- john 1:45
Nathanael said to him, "Can any good thing come out of Nazareth?" Philip *said to him, "Come and see." -- john 1:46
Jesus saw Nathanael coming to Him, and *said of him, "Behold, an Israelite indeed, in whom there is no deceit!" -- john 1:47
Nathanael *said to Him, "How do You know me?" Jesus answered and said to him, "Before Philip called you, when you were under the fig tree, I saw you." -- john 1:48
And He *said to him, "Truly, truly, I say to you, you will see the heavens opened and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man." -- john 1:51
When the wine ran out, the mother of Jesus *said to Him, "They have no wine." -- john 2:3
And Jesus *said to her, "Woman, what does that have to do with us? My hour has not yet come." -- john 2:4
His mother *said to the servants, "Whatever He says to you, do it." -- john 2:5
Jesus *said to them, "Fill the waterpots with water." So they filled them up to the brim. -- john 2:7
And He *said to them, "Draw some out now and take it to the headwaiter." So they took it to him. -- john 2:8
When the headwaiter tasted the water which had become wine, and did not know where it came from (but the servants who had drawn the water knew), the headwaiter *called the bridegroom, -- john 2:9
and *said to him, "Every man serves the good wine first, and when the people have drunk freely, then he serves the poorer wine; but you have kept the good wine until now." -- john 2:10
Nicodemus *said to Him, "How can a man be born when he is old? He cannot enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born, can he?" -- john 3:4
So He *came to a city of Samaria called Sychar, near the parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph; -- john 4:5
There *came a woman of Samaria to draw water. Jesus *said to her, "Give Me a drink." -- john 4:7
Therefore the Samaritan woman *said to Him, "How is it that You, being a Jew, ask me for a drink since I am a Samaritan woman?" (For Jews have no dealings with Samaritans.) -- john 4:9
She *said to Him, "Sir, You have nothing to draw with and the well is deep; where then do You get that living water? -- john 4:11
The woman *said to Him, "Sir, give me this water, so I will not be thirsty nor come all the way here to draw." -- john 4:15
He *said to her, "Go, call your husband and come here." -- john 4:16
The woman answered and said, "I have no husband." Jesus *said to her, "You have correctly said, 'I have no husband'; -- john 4:17
The woman *said to Him, "Sir, I perceive that You are a prophet. -- john 4:19
Jesus *said to her, "Woman, believe Me, an hour is coming when neither in this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father. -- john 4:21
The woman *said to Him, "I know that Messiah is coming (He who is called Christ); when that One comes, He will declare all things to us." -- john 4:25
Jesus *said to her, "I who speak to you am He." -- john 4:26
So the woman left her waterpot, and went into the city and *said to the men, -- john 4:28
Jesus *said to them, "My food is to do the will of Him who sent Me and to accomplish His work. -- john 4:34
The royal official *said to Him, "Sir, come down before my child dies." -- john 4:49
Jesus *said to him, "Go; your son lives." The man believed the word that Jesus spoke to him and started off. -- john 4:50
When Jesus saw him lying there, and knew that he had already been a long time in that condition, He *said to him, "Do you wish to get well?" -- john 5:6
Jesus *said to him, "Get up, pick up your pallet and walk." -- john 5:8
Afterward Jesus *found him in the temple and said to him, "Behold, you have become well; do not sin anymore, so that nothing worse happens to you." -- john 5:14
Therefore Jesus, lifting up His eyes and seeing that a large crowd was coming to Him, *said to Philip, "Where are we to buy bread, so that these may eat?" -- john 6:5
One of His disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, *said to Him, -- john 6:8
When they were filled, He *said to His disciples, "Gather up the leftover fragments so that nothing will be lost." -- john 6:12
Then, when they had rowed about three or four miles, they *saw Jesus walking on the sea and drawing near to the boat; and they were frightened. -- john 6:19
But He *said to them, "It is I; do not be afraid." -- john 6:20
So Jesus *said to them, "My time is not yet here, but your time is always opportune. -- john 7:6
Nicodemus (he who came to Him before, being one of them) *said to them, -- john 7:50
The scribes and the Pharisees *brought a woman caught in adultery, and having set her in the center of the court, -- john 8:3
they *said to Him, "Teacher, this woman has been caught in adultery, in the very act. -- john 8:4
They answered and said to Him, "Abraham is our father." Jesus *said to them, "If you are Abraham's children, do the deeds of Abraham. -- john 8:39
They said to him, "Where is He?" He *said, "I do not know." -- john 9:12
They *brought to the Pharisees the man who was formerly blind. -- john 9:13
So they *said to the blind man again, "What do you say about Him, since He opened your eyes?" And he said, "He is a prophet." -- john 9:17
Then after this He *said to the disciples, "Let us go to Judea again." -- john 11:7
The disciples *said to Him, "Rabbi, the Jews were just now seeking to stone You, and are You going there again?" -- john 11:8
This He said, and after that He *said to them, "Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep; but I go, so that I may awaken him out of sleep." -- john 11:11
Jesus *said to her, "Your brother will rise again." -- john 11:23
Martha *said to Him, "I know that he will rise again in the resurrection on the last day." -- john 11:24
She *said to Him, "Yes, Lord; I have believed that You are the Christ, the Son of God, even He who comes into the world." -- john 11:27
And when she heard it, she *got up quickly and was coming to Him. -- john 11:29
and said, "Where have you laid him?" They *said to Him, "Lord, come and see." -- john 11:34
So Jesus, again being deeply moved within, *came to the tomb. Now it was a cave, and a stone was lying against it. -- john 11:38
Jesus *said, "Remove the stone." Martha, the sister of the deceased, *said to Him, "Lord, by this time there will be a stench, for he has been dead four days." -- john 11:39
Jesus *said to her, "Did I not say to you that if you believe, you will see the glory of God?" -- john 11:40
The man who had died came forth, bound hand and foot with wrappings, and his face was wrapped around with a cloth. Jesus *said to them, "Unbind him, and let him go." -- john 11:44
But Judas Iscariot, one of His disciples, who was intending to betray Him, *said, -- john 12:4
Philip *came and *told Andrew; Andrew and Philip *came and *told Jesus. -- john 12:22
And Jesus *answered them, saying, "The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. -- john 12:23
*got up from supper, and *laid aside His garments; and taking a towel, He girded Himself. -- john 13:4
Then He *poured water into the basin, and began to wash the disciples' feet and to wipe them with the towel with which He was girded. -- john 13:5
So He *came to Simon Peter. He *said to Him, "Lord, do You wash my feet?" -- john 13:6
Peter *said to Him, "Never shall You wash my feet!" Jesus answered him, "If I do not wash you, you have no part with Me." -- john 13:8
Simon Peter *said to Him, "Lord, then wash not only my feet, but also my hands and my head." -- john 13:9
Jesus *said to him, "He who has bathed needs only to wash his feet, but is completely clean; and you are clean, but not all of you." -- john 13:10
So Simon Peter *gestured to him, and *said to him, "Tell us who it is of whom He is speaking." -- john 13:24
He, leaning back thus on Jesus' bosom, *said to Him, "Lord, who is it?" -- john 13:25
Jesus then *answered, "That is the one for whom I shall dip the morsel and give it to him." So when He had dipped the morsel, He *took and *gave it to Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot. -- john 13:26
After the morsel, Satan then entered into him. Therefore Jesus *said to him, "What you do, do quickly." -- john 13:27
Therefore when he had gone out, Jesus *said, "Now is the Son of Man glorified, and God is glorified in Him; -- john 13:31
Simon Peter *said to Him, "Lord, where are You going?" Jesus answered, "Where I go, you cannot follow Me now; but you will follow later." -- john 13:36
Peter *said to Him, "Lord, why can I not follow You right now? I will lay down my life for You." -- john 13:37
Jesus *answered, "Will you lay down your life for Me? Truly, truly, I say to you, a rooster will not crow until you deny Me three times. -- john 13:38
Thomas *said to Him, "Lord, we do not know where You are going, how do we know the way?" -- john 14:5
Jesus *said to him, "I am the way, and the truth, and the life; no one comes to the Father but through Me. -- john 14:6
Philip *said to Him, "Lord, show us the Father, and it is enough for us." -- john 14:8
Jesus *said to him, "Have I been so long with you, and yet you have not come to know Me, Philip? He who has seen Me has seen the Father; how can you say, 'Show us the Father'? -- john 14:9
Judas (not Iscariot) *said to Him, "Lord, what then has happened that You are going to disclose Yourself to us and not to the world?" -- john 14:22
His disciples *said, "Lo, now You are speaking plainly and are not using a figure of speech. -- john 16:29
Judas then, having received the Roman cohort and officers from the chief priests and the Pharisees, *came there with lanterns and torches and weapons. -- john 18:3
So Jesus, knowing all the things that were coming upon Him, went forth and *said to them, "Whom do you seek?" -- john 18:4
They answered Him, "Jesus the Nazarene." He *said to them, "I am He." And Judas also, who was betraying Him, was standing with them. -- john 18:5
Then the slave-girl who kept the door *said to Peter, "You are not also one of this man's disciples, are you?" He *said, "I am not." -- john 18:17
One of the slaves of the high priest, being a relative of the one whose ear Peter cut off, *said, "Did I not see you in the garden with Him?" -- john 18:26
Then they *led Jesus from Caiaphas into the Praetorium, and it was early; and they themselves did not enter into the Praetorium so that they would not be defiled, but might eat the Passover. -- john 18:28
Therefore Pilate went out to them and *said, "What accusation do you bring against this Man?" -- john 18:29
Pilate *said to Him, "What is truth?" And when he had said this, he went out again to the Jews and *said to them, "I find no guilt in Him. -- john 18:38
Pilate came out again and *said to them, "Behold, I am bringing Him out to you so that you may know that I find no guilt in Him." -- john 19:4
Jesus then came out, wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe. Pilate *said to them, "Behold, the Man!" -- john 19:5
So when the chief priests and the officers saw Him, they cried out saying, "Crucify, crucify!" Pilate *said to them, "Take Him yourselves and crucify Him, for I find no guilt in Him." -- john 19:6
and he entered into the Praetorium again and *said to Jesus, "Where are You from?" But Jesus gave him no answer. -- john 19:9
So Pilate *said to Him, "You do not speak to me? Do You not know that I have authority to release You, and I have authority to crucify You?" -- john 19:10
Now it was the day of preparation for the Passover; it was about the sixth hour. And he *said to the Jews, "Behold, your King!" -- john 19:14
So they cried out, "Away with Him, away with Him, crucify Him!" Pilate *said to them, "Shall I crucify your King?" The chief priests answered, "We have no king but Caesar." -- john 19:15
When Jesus then saw His mother, and the disciple whom He loved standing nearby, He *said to His mother, "Woman, behold, your son!" -- john 19:26
Then He *said to the disciple, "Behold, your mother!" From that hour the disciple took her into his own household. -- john 19:27
After this, Jesus, knowing that all things had already been accomplished, to fulfill the Scripture, *said, "I am thirsty." -- john 19:28
Now on the first day of the week Mary Magdalene *came early to the tomb, while it *was still dark, and *saw the stone already taken away from the tomb. -- john 20:1
So she *ran and *came to Simon Peter and to the other disciple whom Jesus loved, and *said to them, "They have taken away the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid Him." -- john 20:2
and stooping and looking in, he *saw the linen wrappings lying there; but he did not go in. -- john 20:5
And so Simon Peter also *came, following him, and entered the tomb; and he *saw the linen wrappings lying there, -- john 20:6
and she *saw two angels in white sitting, one at the head and one at the feet, where the body of Jesus had been lying. -- john 20:12
And they *said to her, "Woman, why are you weeping?" She *said to them, "Because they have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have laid Him." -- john 20:13
When she had said this, she turned around and *saw Jesus standing there, and did not know that it was Jesus. -- john 20:14
Jesus *said to her, "Woman, why are you weeping? Whom are you seeking?" Supposing Him to be the gardener, she *said to Him, "Sir, if you have carried Him away, tell me where you have laid Him, and I will take Him away." -- john 20:15
Jesus *said to her, "Mary!" She turned and *said to Him in Hebrew, "Rabboni!" (which means, Teacher). -- john 20:16
Jesus *said to her, "Stop clinging to Me, for I have not yet ascended to the Father; but go to My brethren and say to them, 'I ascend to My Father and your Father, and My God and your God.'" -- john 20:17
Mary Magdalene *came, announcing to the disciples, "I have seen the Lord," and that He had said these things to her. -- john 20:18
So when it was evening on that day, the first day of the week, and when the doors were shut where the disciples were, for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in their midst and *said to them, "Peace be with you." -- john 20:19
And when He had said this, He breathed on them and *said to them, "Receive the Holy Spirit. -- john 20:22
After eight days His disciples were again inside, and Thomas with them. Jesus *came, the doors having been shut, and stood in their midst and said, "Peace be with you." -- john 20:26
Then He *said to Thomas, "Reach here with your finger, and see My hands; and reach here your hand and put it into My side; and do not be unbelieving, but believing." -- john 20:27
Jesus *said to him, "Because you have seen Me, have you believed? Blessed are they who did not see, and yet believed." -- john 20:29
Simon Peter *said to them, "I am going fishing." They *said to him, "We will also come with you." They went out and got into the boat; and that night they caught nothing. -- john 21:3
So Jesus *said to them, "Children, you do not have any fish, do you?" They answered Him, "No." -- john 21:5
Therefore that disciple whom Jesus loved *said to Peter, "It is the Lord." So when Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he put his outer garment on (for he was stripped for work), and threw himself into the sea. -- john 21:7
So when they got out on the land, they *saw a charcoal fire already laid and fish placed on it, and bread. -- john 21:9
Jesus *said to them, "Bring some of the fish which you have now caught." -- john 21:10
Jesus *said to them, "Come and have breakfast." None of the disciples ventured to question Him, "Who are You?" knowing that it was the Lord. -- john 21:12
Jesus *came and *took the bread and *gave it to them, and the fish likewise. -- john 21:13
So when they had finished breakfast, Jesus *said to Simon Peter, "Simon, son of John, do you love Me more than these?" He *said to Him, "Yes, Lord; You know that I love You." He *said to him, "Tend My lambs." -- john 21:15
He *said to him again a second time, "Simon, son of John, do you love Me?" He *said to Him, "Yes, Lord; You know that I love You." He *said to him, "Shepherd My sheep." -- john 21:16
He *said to him the third time, "Simon, son of John, do you love Me?" Peter was grieved because He said to him the third time, "Do you love Me?" And he said to Him, "Lord, You know all things; You know that I love You." Jesus *said to him, "Tend My sheep. -- john 21:17
Now this He said, signifying by what kind of death he would glorify God. And when He had spoken this, He *said to him, "Follow Me!" -- john 21:19
Peter, turning around, *saw the disciple whom Jesus loved following them; the one who also had leaned back on His bosom at the supper and said, "Lord, who is the one who betrays You?" -- john 21:20
So Peter seeing him *said to Jesus, "Lord, and what about this man?" -- john 21:21
Jesus *said to him, "If I want him to remain until I come, what is that to you? You follow Me!" -- john 21:22
And there are also many other things which Jesus did, which if they *were written in detail, I suppose that even the world itself *would not contain the books that *would be written. -- john 21:25
As they went along the road they came to some water; and the eunuch *said, "Look! Water! What prevents me from being baptized?" -- acts 8:36
and he *saw the sky opened up, and an object like a great sheet coming down, lowered by four corners to the ground, -- acts 10:11
As he talked with him, he entered and *found many people assembled. -- acts 10:27
and he *said, 'Cornelius, your prayer has been heard and your alms have been remembered before God. -- acts 10:31
And the angel said to him, "Gird yourself and put on your sandals." And he did so. And he *said to him, "Wrap your cloak around you and follow me." -- acts 12:8
After quieting the crowd, the town clerk *said, "Men of Ephesus, what man is there after all who does not know that the city of the Ephesians is guardian of the temple of the great Artemis and of the image which fell down from heaven? -- acts 19:35
As Paul was about to be brought into the barracks, he said to the commander, "May I say something to you?" And he *said, "Do you know Greek? -- acts 21:37
And when they heard that he was addressing them in the Hebrew dialect, they became even more quiet; and he *said, -- acts 22:2
So he took him and led him to the commander and *said, "Paul the prisoner called me to him and asked me to lead this young man to you since he has something to tell you." -- acts 23:18
"Therefore," he *said, "let the influential men among you go there with me, and if there is anything wrong about the man, let them prosecute him." -- acts 25:5
Then Agrippa said to Festus, "I also would like to hear the man myself." "Tomorrow," he *said, "you shall hear him." -- acts 25:22
Festus *said, "King Agrippa, and all you gentlemen here present with us, you see this man about whom all the people of the Jews appealed to me, both at Jerusalem and here, loudly declaring that he ought not to live any longer. -- acts 25:24
While Paul was saying this in his defense, Festus *said in a loud voice, "Paul, you are out of your mind! Your great learning is driving you mad." -- acts 26:24
But Paul *said, "I am not out of my mind, most excellent Festus, but I utter words of sober truth. -- acts 26:25
and one of the elders *said to me, "Stop weeping; behold, the Lion that is from the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, has overcome so as to open the book and its seven seals." -- revelation 5:5
And they *sang a new song, saying, "Worthy are You to take the book and to break its seals; for You were slain, and purchased for God with Your blood men from every tribe and tongue and people and nation. -- revelation 5:9
and they *said to the mountains and to the rocks, "Fall on us and hide us from the presence of Him who sits on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb; -- revelation 6:16
So I went to the angel, telling him to give me the little book. And he *said to me, "Take it and eat it; it will make your stomach bitter, but in your mouth it will be sweet as honey." -- revelation 10:9
And they *said to me, "You must prophesy again concerning many peoples and nations and tongues and kings." -- revelation 10:11
and she was with child; and she *cried out, being in labor and in pain to give birth. -- revelation 12:2
And his tail *swept away a third of the stars of heaven and threw them to the earth. And the dragon stood before the woman who was about to give birth, so that when she gave birth he might devour her child. -- revelation 12:4
Then the woman fled into the wilderness where she *had a place prepared by God, so that there she would be nourished for one thousand two hundred and sixty days. -- revelation 12:6
But the two wings of the great eagle were given to the woman, so that she could fly into the wilderness to her place, where she *was nourished for a time and times and half a time, from the presence of the serpent. -- revelation 12:14
And he deceives those who dwell on the earth because of the signs which it was given him to perform in the presence of the beast, telling those who dwell on the earth to make an image to the beast who *had the wound of the sword and has come to life. -- revelation 13:14
And they *sang a new song before the throne and before the four living creatures and the elders; and no one could learn the song except the one hundred and forty-four thousand who had been purchased from the earth. -- revelation 14:3
And they *sang the song of Moses, the bond-servant of God, and the song of the Lamb, saying, "Great and marvelous are Your works, O Lord God, the Almighty; Righteous and true are Your ways, King of the nations! -- revelation 15:3
And huge hailstones, about one hundred pounds each, *came down from heaven upon men; and men blasphemed God because of the plague of the hail, because its plague *was extremely severe. -- revelation 16:21
And he *said to me, "The waters which you saw where the harlot sits, are peoples and multitudes and nations and tongues. -- revelation 17:15
Then he *said to me, "Write, 'Blessed are those who are invited to the marriage supper of the Lamb.'" And he *said to me, "These are true words of God." -- revelation 19:9
Then I fell at his feet to worship him. But he *said to me, "Do not do that; I am a fellow servant of yours and your brethren who hold the testimony of Jesus; worship God. For the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy." -- revelation 19:10
And He who sits on the throne said, "Behold, I am making all things new." And He *said, "Write, for these words are faithful and true." -- revelation 21:5
But he *said to me, "Do not do that. I am a fellow servant of yours and of your brethren the prophets and of those who heed the words of this book. Worship God." -- revelation 22:9
And he *said to me, "Do not seal up the words of the prophecy of this book, for the time is near. -- revelation 22:10
